Seung Hak Kuk, Hyeon Soo Kim, Jai-Kyung Lee, Seungho Han, Seong-Whan Park,
An e-Engineering framework based on service-oriented architecture and agent technologies,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 59, Issue 9,
2008,
Pages 923-935,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2008.07.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361508000869)
Abstract: This paper presents an ongoing project on the development of an e-Engineering framework proposed by KIMM (Korea Institute of Machinery and Materials). The framework aims to provide an integrated engineering environment to support collaborating and integrating personnel, design/modelling/simulation activities and engineering resources in the product development process. Integration of the distributed engineering resources and orchestration of engineering activities have been recognized as crucial issues to construct such collaborative engineering environments successfully. To effectively support integration and collaboration in the framework, the framework is built on the basis of a number of advanced technologies, such as service-oriented architecture, intelligent software agents, and Web services. Based on service-oriented architecture and Web services technologies, the framework is able to utilize and integrate effectively various engineering resources on the geographically distributed computing environments. And through intelligent agent technologies, it supports cooperation and coordination mechanisms for the engineering activities. In this paper we describe the implementation of the framework in detail. In addition, we present the applicability of the framework with a case study.
Keywords: e-Engineering framework; Service-oriented architecture; Web services; Agents

Pasqualina Potena,
Optimization of adaptation plans for a service-oriented architecture with cost, reliability, availability and performance tradeoff,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 86, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 624-648,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2012.10.929.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121212003226)
Abstract: A service-based system may require adaptation for several reasons, such as service evolution (e.g., a new version may be available), hardware volatility (e.g., network quality changes), and varying user demands and new requirements (e.g., a new functionality or a different level of quality of service). Therefore, it is suitable to dynamically adapt a service-based system in an automated manner. However, service adaptations often do not consider software quality attributes and, if they do, they relay on a single attribute in isolation. In this paper, we present an optimization model, which aims to minimize the adaptation costs of a Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), in correspondence with a certain change scenario (i.e., a set of new requirements) under reliability, availability and performance tradeoff. The model predicts the quality of the new SOA obtained by changing both its structure and behavior. Specifically, it suggests how to replace existing services with available instances and/or adding new services, and how to remove or introduce interaction(s) between existing services and/or new services. We show how our model works on a smartphone mobile application example, and through the sensitivity analysis we highlight its potential to drive architectural decisions.
Keywords: Selecting adaptation plans; Software cost; Software reliability; Software performance; Optimization model

Robin Singh Bhadoria, Narendra S. Chaudhari, Geetam Singh Tomar,
The Performance Metric for Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) in SOA system: Theoretical underpinnings and empirical illustrations for information processing,
Information Systems,
Volume 65,
2017,
Pages 158-171,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2016.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915301952)
Abstract: Now days, the businesses are going online and e-Commerce industry is on its boom. In this changing era of development, services are to be Robust, Agile, Accessible and Available to its clients. For secured and guaranteed delivery of services, every big organization is shifting their service delivery model to Enterprise Service Bus (ESB). It promises to set up a strong guideline to build System Oriented Architecture (SOA) system, which leverages multiple services from different application domains. This paper presents an analytical survey of ESB on different parameters influencing the performance of SOA in the present changing scenario and service patterns.
Keywords: Enterprise Service Bus; Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) System; Service stack; Service patterns; Message Routing; Enterprise Integration Pattern

Kleanthis Thramboulidis, Ioanna Kontou, Danai C. Vachtsevanou,
Towards an IoT-based Framework for Evolvable Assembly Systems,
IFAC-PapersOnLine,
Volume 51, Issue 11,
2018,
Pages 182-187,
ISSN 2405-8963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2018.08.255.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S240589631831379X)
Abstract: The manufacturing industry is facing the challenge to address the individual requirements of customers that lead to increased product variety and volume reduction. Evolvable assembly systems (ASs) have been defined during the past years to enable quick adaptation of manufacturing assets to respond to the evolving market requirements. On the other side the manufacturing era is changing due to the fourth industrial revolution that will change the traditional manufacturing environment to an IoT-based one. In this context, this paper presents a framework for cyber-physical ASs with the intention to exploit the benefits of the IoT technologies but also utilize the existing huge investment based on traditional technologies in this domain. The framework is based on a model-driven engineering approach that has been extended to exploit IoT technologies for the automation of various tasks of the development and operation phases of the AS. A case study from everyday life was adopted to demonstrate the approach even to non-experts of this domain.
Keywords: Assembly systems; system architecture; Industry 4.0; Cyber-physical systems; IoT

Yiqi Wu, Fazhi He, Yilin Chen,
A Service-oriented Secure Infrastructure for Feature-based Data Exchange in Cloud-based Design and Manufacture,
Procedia CIRP,
Volume 56,
2016,
Pages 55-60,
ISSN 2212-8271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2016.10.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827116310083)
Abstract: Under the impact of service-oriented architecture (SOA) and cloud computing, Cloud-Based Design and Manufacture (CBDM) has been a flexible and effective way for Collaborative Product Development (CPD). As a crucial issue in sharing CAD models for CPD, Feature-Based Data Exchange (FBDE) among heterogeneous CAD systems should be adapted in CBDM. On the other hand, the sensitive information and intellectual property of CAD models should be protected in the process of FBDE and CBDM. This paper presents a service-oriented architecture for secure FBDE in CBDM. This architecture replaces traditional data exchange and secure process, which are based on client sides, with a service-oriented data exchange and secure process on clouds. In this way, feature-based CAD models could be exchanged among collaborative designers with the sensitive information protected in CBDM. The service-oriented infrastructure provides cost-effective, flexible and scalable solutions for secure FBDE. The case study and experiments demonstrate the proposed idea and method.
Keywords: Collaborative Product Development; Cloud-Based Design and Manufacture; Feature-Based Data Exchange; information security

Urjaswala Vora,
Precepts and Evolvability of Complex Systems,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 62,
2015,
Pages 565-574,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.08.533.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091502668X)
Abstract: In complex enterprise systems that undergo continual evolutions, the change impact tends to get cumulative and adverse and have high probability of degradation of software quality. Functional evolutions are the most frequent and the most impacting evolutions. The functional components in a software architecture that are aligned with them are the activities. Activity is a business process that fulfils an operation contract of an application. An application is a set of activities that get invoked by different users. In the software evolution process, the change impact analysis techniques generate the model(s) of the data-flows and/or control-flows within the source code for the activity to be evolved. They capture the propagation of changes and derive the change impact sets which are then used for the planning, estimation, development and verification phases of the evolution process. The taxonomical surveys of evolutions indicate that the control structures embedded within the source code undergo changes much more rapidly than the other elements and are the major culprits in the evolvability degradation. We define an architectural approach of modeling the control structures within the activities of an application as precepts, the control-flow rule-sets, that mitigates the adverse impact of evolution. Precepts also facilitate the definition of Evolvability Metrics that measure the evolvability index of an application. The existing metrics that indicate evolvability, measure the complexity as well as modularity at a low level and cannot be aggregated trivially. To validate these metrics, we define Efforts Deviation Index that captures the difficulty level of the change implementation process.
Keywords: Evolvability; Complex Systems; Control Flows; Software Evolution; Evolvability Metrics; Precepts.

Florian Skopik, Daniel Schall, Schahram Dustdar,
Modeling and mining of dynamic trust in complex service-oriented systems,
Information Systems,
Volume 35, Issue 7,
2010,
Pages 735-757,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2010.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437910000153)
Abstract: The global scale and distribution of companies have changed the economy and dynamics of businesses. Web-based collaborations and cross-organizational processes typically require dynamic and context-based interactions between people and services. However, finding the right partner to work on joint tasks or to solve emerging problems in such scenarios is challenging due to scale and temporary nature of collaborations. Furthermore, actor competencies evolve over time, thus requiring dynamic approaches for their management. Web services and SOA are the ideal technical framework to automate interactions spanning people and services. To support such complex interaction scenarios, we discuss mixed service-oriented systems that are composed of both humans and software services, interacting to perform certain activities. As an example, consider a professional online support community consisting of interactions between human participants and software-based services. We argue that trust between members is essential for successful collaborations. Unlike a security perspective, we focus on the notion of social trust in collaborative networks. We show an interpretative rule-based approach to enable humans and services to establish trust based on interactions and experiences, considering their context and subjective perceptions.
Keywords: Collaborative environment; Service-orientation; Social trust; Interaction patterns; Flexible composition; Crowdsourcing

Hamid Tohidi,
Modelling of business services in service oriented enterprises,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 3,
2011,
Pages 1147-1156,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2010.12.186.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050910005612)
Abstract: The idea of on demand business combines information technology and business to make the companies more rapid, responsible and profitable. Today, the most important thing that can be considered for an enterprise is flexibility, which, in this context, means having more flexibility in responding to new demands of the market and grasping the opportunities. In order to increase its flexibility, first of all, business enterprise takes a look at its interrelated activities and then specifies which activity is distinct and axial and which can be outsourced. If the companies can combine and coordinate these activities as they desire, then they will enjoy remarkable excellence in market. Extraordinary alignment between information technology and business is a result of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) approach, which has made the organizations have a special look at this approach for execution of software projects. Business processes are used for modeling internal and external operations of the organizations for several decades and accidentally such a modeling has rapidly become a standard modeling in businesses, companies and enterprises, booming outsourcing market and making the enterprises and companies grow by such modeling and benefit from remarkable savings. But, there is a serious need for new methods for modeling enterprises operations in order to identify and use the common features between companies and enterprises for decrease the costs and enjoy more savings. In this paper, an approach is introduced that is based on business services for service orientation of enterprises. Molding the business services is one of the innovative methods for achieving the objectives concerned in the business.

Miguel S. Familiar, José F. Martínez, Iván Corredor, Carlos García-Rubio,
Building service-oriented Smart Infrastructures over Wireless Ad Hoc Sensor Networks: A middleware perspective,
Computer Networks,
Volume 56, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 1303-1328,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2011.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128611004208)
Abstract: The increase in physical resources for the next-generation of embedded computing devices, as well as in the efforts carried out by the scientific and research communities, is paving the way for Smart Infrastructures based on Wireless Sensor Networks. In such manner, not only open and formally defined Service-Oriented Frameworks are required, but also efficient middleware technologies that ease the development of new sensor-based services. From the cornerstone analysis of pervasive computing principles applied to Smart Spaces creation, this article presents the μSMS (micro Subscription Management System) middleware. This approach specifies and develops the notion of virtual sensor services created for Smart Environments over sensor networks from tiny in-network services based on agent technology. In the framework of the μSWN European Research Project, this architecture has been validated in a Smart Hospital real-world scenario using a healthcare virtual sensor service. Considering such purpose, medical status monitoring, location tracking and perimeter surveillance agent-based services have been developed. This study is concluded by a comparative analysis of the system considering memory overhead, packet delivery ratio, average end-to-end delay and battery lifetime as evaluation metrics. The results show a lightweight middleware implementation with good overall system and network performance.
Keywords: Service-oriented middleware; Smart Environment; Embedded software engineering; Pervasive computing; Wireless Ad Hoc Sensor Network

Robert A. Jenders, Klaus-Peter Adlassnig, Karsten Fehre, Peter Haug,
Evolution of the Arden Syntax: Key Technical Issues from the Standards Development Organization Perspective,
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine,
Volume 92,
2018,
Pages 10-14,
ISSN 0933-3657,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2016.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0933365716302391)
Abstract: Background
The initial version of the Arden Syntax for Medical Logic Systems was created to facilitate explicit representation of medical logic in a form that could be easily composed and interpreted by clinical experts in order to facilitate clinical decision support (CDS). Because of demand from knowledge engineers and programmers to improve functionality related to complex use cases, the Arden Syntax evolved to include features typical of general programming languages but that were specialized to meet the needs of the clinical decision support environment, including integration into a clinical information system architecture.
Method
Review of the design history and evolution of the Arden Syntax by workers who participated in this evolution from the perspective of the standards development organization (SDO).
Results
In order to meet user needs, a variety of features were successively incorporated in Arden Syntax. These can be grouped in several classes of change, including control flow, data structures, operators and external links. These changes included expansion of operators to manipulate lists and strings; a formalism for structured output; iteration constructs; user-defined objects and operators to manipulate them; features to support international use and output in different natural languages; additional control features; fuzzy logic formalisms; and mapping of the entire syntax to XML. The history and rationale of this evolution are summarized.
Conclusion
In response to user demand and to reflect its growing role in clinical decision support, the Arden Syntax has evolved to include a number of powerful features. These depart somewhat from the original vision of the syntax as simple and easily understandable but from the SDO perspective increase the utility of this standard for implementation of CDS. Backwards compatibility has been maintained, allowing continued support of the earlier, simpler decision support models.
Keywords: HL7 International; Arden Syntax; Clinical decision support

Marcos López-Sanz, César J. Acuña, Carlos E. Cuesta, Esperanza Marcos,
Modelling of Service-Oriented Architectures with UML,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 194, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 23-37,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2008.03.097.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066108002028)
Abstract: Nowadays, service-oriented architectures are becoming gradually more important. The vast diversity of implementation and support platforms for this kind of architectures (such as Web, Grid or even CORBA) increases the complexity of the development process of service-based systems. With the aim of facilitating the development of service oriented solutions, we propose the specification of an architecture centric model driven development method. To achieve this, we study the architectural properties of the SOA paradigm and follow a development approach based on the MDA proposal. MDA proposes a separation of the development process in abstraction levels. This makes MDA suitable to tackle the development of service-oriented systems. This paper describes a UML profile for the PIM-level service-oriented architectural modelling, as well as its corresponding metamodel. PIM (Platform Independent Model) level is chosen because it does not reflect constraints about any specific platform or implementation technology. To exemplify and validate the profile, a case study is presented in which the proposed profile is used.
Keywords: Service-Oriented Architectures; Model-Driven Architecture; PIM-level modelling; UML Profiles

Frank Cohen,
Chapter 1 - The Problem with Service-Oriented Architecture,
Editor(s): Frank Cohen,
In The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems,
FastSOA,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2007,
Pages 1-40,
ISBN 9780123695130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012369513-0/50002-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123695130500021)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter discusses the problems with the service-oriented architecture (SOA). The chapter reveals that business managers relish the idea of SOA. They widely believe SOA will get them to composite applications immediately. The wonderful part of SOA is its ability to pull together adopted and well-understood protocols, software development coding techniques, and a governance model. These lead to common use of SOA message patterns to exchange standards-based business documents in a business process. The problematic issues in SOA are driven by the gap between management's buy-in to SOA and the ability of software architects and developers to deliver production-worthy software code that achieves user satisfaction. This chapter introduces SOA from a performance and scalability perspective. Bosworth's issue is reflected in industry and institutional emphasis on document definitions (schema) and workflow message exchange patterns. Many enterprises began their SOA efforts by forming industry associations to define the document schemas they had in common.

Marinela Mircea, Anca Ioana Andreescu,
Service-Oriented University: changes and opportunities towards innovation,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 31,
2012,
Pages 251-256,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2011.12.051.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042811029806)
Abstract: Service-oriented architecture has been acknowledged by many researchers and it has been proving its usefulness in obtaining agility at organization/university level. Moreover, under certain conditions, the use of shared services as cloud computing solutions can bring quick benefits with reduced costs. This paper analyzes the evolution of universities to service-oriented universities in order to increase flexibility and achieve innovation. The paper highlights the benefits/needs of the transition to service-oriented universities. In addition, necessary changes are considered and suggestions are offered for educational institutions. References will be made to experience/results obtained within the Academy of Economic Studies from Bucharest concerning the use of services-oriented and cloud computing systems/applications. The paper comes to support the universities of tomorrow, as a pillar of society development.
Keywords: Service-oriented university; Cloud computing; Service-oriented architecture; Higher education; Innovation

Saulo Barbará de Oliveira, Antonio José Balloni, Felipe Nogueira Barbará de Oliveira, Favio Akiyoshi Toda,
Information and Service-Oriented Architecture & Web Services: Enabling Integration and Organizational Agility,
Procedia Technology,
Volume 5,
2012,
Pages 141-151,
ISSN 2212-0173,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2012.09.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212017312004471)
Abstract: Competitive organizations are facing a variety of problems as a result of advances in management techniques as well due to the delay in the introduction of these in business management models. One of the biggest and critical problems for competitiveness in the globalised market is the creation of a technological infrastructure for real-time decision-making. But the combination of technologies, such as Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services (WS) and Information Architecture (IA), promises to revolutionize the way in which organizations compete, speeds up decision-making, and take leverage of market opportunities. However, these technologies still face challenges that need to be overcome. Based on the literature review, the scope of this article is to discuss the main issues and the development of organizational modeling technologies, and presenting an online and real time business architecture framework.
Keywords: information architecture; business architecture framework; service-oriented architecture (soa); processes modeling and analysis; information technology

Fred A. Cummins,
Chapter 6 - SOA Security,
Editor(s): Fred A. Cummins,
In The MK/OMG Press,
Building the Agile Enterprise,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2009,
Pages 155-185,
ISBN 9780123744456,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374445-6.00006-6.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123744456000066)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter focuses on security concerns that arise or are amplified for the agile enterprise, particularly concerns raised by service-oriented architecture (SOA). It assumes that attention has already been given to such concerns as physical security, threats of intrusion from the World Wide Web, and virus protection. Its purpose is to provide an understanding of the requirements and approaches for optimizing security for services, from an enterprise perspective, so that management can plan for and commit to the necessary enterprise transformation. With the advent of the public Internet and the World Wide Web, security risks have increased dramatically. Systems are exposed to public access and email messages can carry or link to corrupting software. Automation and electronic communications have added new dimensions to security concerns. Electronic integration of services, extending beyond the walls of the enterprise, has created new security exposures. Fortunately, SOA technology and related industry standards have created new opportunities for accountability and control.

Omar El-Gayar, Amit Deokar,
A semantic service-oriented architecture for distributed model management systems,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 55, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 374-384,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.05.046.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612001571)
Abstract: Decision models are organizational resources that need to be managed to facilitate sharing and reuse. In today's networked economy, the ubiquity of the Internet and distributed computing environments further amplifies the need and the potential for distributed model management system (DMMS) that manages decision models throughout the modeling lifecycle and throughout the extended enterprise. This paper presents a service-oriented architecture for DMMS. The proposed architecture leverages service-oriented design principles and recent developments in semantic web services to enable model sharing and reuse in a distributed setting. The paper describes a prototype implementation, case study scenarios, and a discussion highlighting lessons learned and implications for research and practice.
Keywords: Decision support systems; Distributed model management; Service-oriented architecture; Semantic web services

A. Werner, J. Svensson, G. Kühner, T. Bluhm, P. Heimann, S. Jakob, C. Hennig, H. Kroiss, H. Laqua, M. Lewerentz, H. Riemann, J. Schacht, A. Spring, M. Zilker, J. Maier,
Scientific component framework for W7-X using service oriented GRID middleware,
Fusion Engineering and Design,
Volume 85, Issues 3–4,
2010,
Pages 394-398,
ISSN 0920-3796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2009.10.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920379609002828)
Abstract: Future fusion experiments, aiming to demonstrate steady state reactor operation, require physics driven plasma control based on increasingly complex plasma models. A precondition for establishing such control systems is widely automated data analysis, which can provide integration of multiple diagnostic on a large scale. Even high quality online data evaluation, which is essential for the scientific documentation of the experiment, has to be performed automatically due to the huge data sets being recorded in long discharge runs. An automated system that can handle these requirements will have to be built on reusable software components that can be maintained by the domain experts: diagnosticians, theorists, engineers and others. For Wendelstein 7-X a service oriented architecture seems to be appropriate, in which software components can be exposed as services with well defined interface contracts. Although grid computing has up to now been mainly used for remote job execution, a more promising service oriented middleware has emerged from the recent grid specification, the open grid service architecture (OGSA). It is based on stateful web services defined by the web service resource framework (WSRF) standard. In particular, the statefulness of services allows to setup complex models without unnecessary performance losses by frequent transmission of large and complex data sets. At present, the usability of this technology in the W7-X CoDaC context is under evaluation by first service implementations.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Grid computing; SOA; Wendelstein 7-X; Modelling; Data analysis; Plasma control

Tarek Zernadji, Chouki Tibermacine, Foudil Cherif, Amina Zouioueche,
Integrating quality requirements in engineering web service orchestrations,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 122,
2016,
Pages 463-483,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2015.11.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121215002423)
Abstract: Today’s Web services are considered as one of the leading technologies for implementing components of service-oriented software architectures for desktop, Web or mobile applications. When designing workflows of activities that involve the invocation of these Web Services, we build either orchestrations or choreographies. The engineering of such applications is an emerging research topic with many challenges. Among them, we can stress out the crucial question of how to answer quality requirements in such engineering processes. This paper, presents a method which aims at assisting software architects of Web Service orchestrations in integrating quality requirements in their artifacts. In order to satisfy a quality requirement, this method suggests a list of service-oriented patterns. We base our work on the postulate stating that quality can be implemented through patterns, which can be specified with checkable/processable languages. This method helps architects to reach concrete architecture changes that can be automatically performed on the orchestration in order to apply a pattern, and thus integrate its associated quality. We experimented our method on a set of real-world orchestrations (BPEL processes) to measure the overhead of using it in engineering such service-oriented applications. The obtained results showed that our method brings a significant gain of time.
Keywords: SOA pattern; Quality attribute; BPEL

Min-Jen Tsai, Yuan-Fu Luo,
Service-oriented grid computing system for digital rights management (GC-DRM),
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 36, Issue 7,
2009,
Pages 10708-10726,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2009.02.066.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417409001936)
Abstract: Service-oriented computing and applications have recently gained significant attention since they provide new service infrastructure and development of service-oriented technology. Under such trend and ubiquitous computing requirement, grid computing is becoming popular in scientific and enterprise computing due to its flexible deployment and implementation. In this paper, we proposed a service-oriented digital rights management (DRM) platform based on grid computing (called GC-DRM) which is in the compliance of Grid Portal standards by using porlet. The platform integrates Globus Toolkit 4 and Condor 6.9.2 and uses web 2.0 to construct the web-based user interface for providing job submission, control, management, monitor for DRM services. GC-DRM can provide different categories of services which include watermark embedding and extraction, image scrambling, visible watermark embedding, image tamper-detection and recovery. In addition, GC-DRM has been applied to analyze the robustness of digital watermark by filter bank selection and the performance can be improved in the aspect of speedup, stability and processing time compared with NaradaBrokering based Computing Power Services (NB-CPS) and Web Services based Computing Power Service (WS-CPS). Therefore, GC-DRM can be concluded as a superior service-oriented computing which provides the user friendly environment with efficient DRM service performance based on grid computing architecture.
Keywords: Condor; Distributed computing; Globus Toolkit; Grid computing; Peer-to-peer; Web Services

Guillermo Rodríguez, Álvaro Soria, Marcelo Campo,
Artificial intelligence in service-oriented software design,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 53,
2016,
Pages 86-104,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2016.03.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197616300677)
Abstract: Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) has gained considerable popularity for the development of distributed enterprise-wide applications within the software industry. The SOA paradigm promotes the reusability and integrability of software in heterogeneous environments by means of open standards. Most software companies capitalize on SOA by discovering and composing services already accessible over the Internet, whereas other organizations need internal control of applications and develop new services with quality-attribute properties tailored to their particular environment. Therefore, based on architectural and business requirements, developers can elaborate different alternatives within a SOA framework to design their software applications. Each of these alternatives will imply trade-offs among quality attributes, such as performance, dependability and availability, among others. In this context, Artificial Intelligence (AI) can assist developers in dealing with service-oriented design with the positive impact on scalability and management of generic quality attributes. In this paper, we offer a detailed, conceptualized and synthesized analysis of AI research works that have aimed at discovering, composing, or developing services. We also identify open research issues and challenges in the aforementioned research areas. The results of the characterization of 69 contemporary approaches and potential research directions for the areas are also shown. It is concluded that AI has aimed at exploiting the semantic resources and achieving quality-attribute properties so as to produce flexible and adaptive-to-change service discovery, composition, and development.
Keywords: Artificial Intelligence; Service-oriented design; Web services discovery; Web service composition; Web service development

Per-Olov Östberg, Erik Elmroth,
GJMF — a composable service-oriented grid job management framework,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 29, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 144-157,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2012.04.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X12000945)
Abstract: There exists a number of grid infrastructures in production use for a wide range of scientific applications. However, due to the complexities inherent to construction of distributed computing environments, many grid tools and applications remain tied to specific grids and grid middlewares. In this work we investigate best practices for grid software design and development, and propose a composable, loosely coupled Service-Oriented Architecture for grid job management. The architecture is designed for use in federated grid environments and defines a model for transparent grid access that aims to decouple grid applications from grid middlewares and facilitate concurrent use of multiple grid middlewares. The architecture model is discussed from the point of view of an ecosystem of grid infrastructure components, and is presented along with a proof-of-concept implementation of the architecture.
Keywords: Grid computing; Grid job management; Grid ecosystem

Hangjung Zo, Derek L. Nazareth, Hemant K. Jain,
Security and performance in service-oriented applications: Trading off competing objectives,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 50, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 336-346,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2010.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923610001715)
Abstract: As service-oriented computing becomes more prevalent, an increasing number of applications will be developed using existing software components with standard interfaces. These components may be developed in-house, may represent purchased software, or may involve vendor located leased services. The use of multiple services, possibly utilizing different technologies and different sources, has significant implications for the performance and security of these applications to support a business process effectively. Estimating performance and security in this distributed environment is a hard problem. This paper examines how performance and security measures can be developed for service-based applications. Business processes are broken down into constituent tasks and a formal mechanism is developed for deriving performance and security measures for the application. Given the competing nature of these two objectives, a tradeoff strategy is utilized wherein managers can trade improved performance for reduced security or vice versa. As the number of alternative services for each task increases, the composition problem becomes combinatorially explosive. A genetic algorithm approach is adopted to find the Pareto optimal set of services that can be assembled to support the business process. An application to a real-world business process illustrates its effectiveness.
Keywords: Service-oriented computing; Application composition; Performance; Security; Multiple criteria decision making

Tanko Ishaya, Musiliudeen Folarin,
A service oriented approach to Business Intelligence in Telecoms industry,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 29, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 273-285,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2012.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585312000056)
Abstract: This paper presents an investigation into the integration and analysis of data from CRM and CDR of Telecoms operators using SO approach to assist the organization in making real-time and accurate decision about the customer tariff plan to ensure customer satisfaction which in return can lead to increase in profit. The development of Service Oriented Business Intelligence (SOBI) architecture based on an analysis of existing architectures/models and customer requirements that were captured through questionnaires. The architecture integrates integrate data from heterogeneous data sources of the organization. A SOBI prototype system that simulates the basic operation of a typical Telecoms organization has been developed and evaluated.
Keywords: Business Intelligence; Service oriented architectures; DSS; CRM; CDR; CLV; DW; Data mining

Adrian Gligor, Traian Turc,
Development of a Service Oriented SCADA System,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 3,
2012,
Pages 256-261,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(12)00149-9.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567112001499)
Abstract: Monitoring and control of technological process, in many cases spread out over small or large geographical areas, are achieved with supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA. This is a fact imposed by technological requirements and also by economical aspects. This approach raises a number of problems, starting from the design and implementation solutions as well as security and safety in these systems. This paper makes a brief analysis of these issues, and starting from this point authors propose a solution based on Service-Oriented Architecture SOA which may represent a solution to some of the identified challenges. For the proposed solution a study is performed. The results are used to conclude on applicability conditions and recommendations on the design and implementation of monitoring and control systems in case of database-as-a-service DbaaS approach.
Keywords: SCADA; web service; service oriented architecture; database as a service; XML; WSDL

Marios Fokaefs, Eleni Stroulia, Paul R. Messinger,
Chapter 11 - Software Evolution in the Presence of Externalities: A Game-Theoretic Approach,
Editor(s): Ivan Mistrik, Rami Bahsoon, Rick Kazman, Yuanyuan Zhang,
Economics-Driven Software Architecture,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2014,
Pages 243-258,
ISBN 9780124104648,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-410464-8.00011-8.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780124104648000118)
Abstract: The architecture of service-oriented systems is defined by the services involved and the network of their usage interdependencies. Changes in an individual service may lead to the evolution of the overall architecture, as (a) different or new interactions may become possible and (b) existing partners may leave the network if their dependency needs are no longer satisfied. Therefore, studying the evolution of a service and the impact it may have on services and business partners that depend on it is essential to studying the evolution of software architecture in the age of service-oriented architecture (SOA). In such an environment with different and possibly independent parties, there may exist conflicting goals. For example, one party may aim for evolution, while another may desire stability. In this chapter, we model the interactions and decision-making process during the evolution of a system using a game-theoretic approach, and we explore how variations in the dependencies and the information flow between the service provider and the clients impact the provider’s decision-making process regarding the evolution of the service.
Keywords: Software Evolution; Software Engineering Economics; Service-oriented Architectures; Game Theory; Externalities

Robin Singh Bhadoria, Narendra S. Chaudhari, V.G. Tharinda Nishantha Vidanagama,
Analyzing the role of interfaces in enterprise service bus: A middleware epitome for service-oriented systems,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 55,
2018,
Pages 146-155,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2017.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548917300521)
Abstract: The modern era of computing is designed around service-oriented systems which integrate multiple services to deliver sophisticated services through well-known interfaces. It could efficiently be done by using features of Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) like reusability, scalability and interoperability. SOA is an adaptive and flexible enough to acquire changes for dynamic environments but it is noted that it is limited with remote and distributed access to services in complex systems where interfaces are not recognized as common medium. This could be strengthened with adopting framework which not only meet such requirements but also provide varieties of interface between multiple services from different domains of applications. Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) is a middleware distributed kind of framework that extends the features of SOA systems and supports the deployment of end-to-end services through well-defined ‘interface’ called connector. The main contribution for this paper is building a deriving mathematical formulation that provides relationship with successfully chance for getting interface during interaction between multiple services. This paper also analysis and investigate the comparison for non-ESB and ESB as interface usage in facilitating services over networks.
Keywords: Interface; Service end-point; Enterprise service bus; Service integration; Service-oriented architecture; Connector; Middleware

José Fiadeiro, Antónia Lopes, João Abreu,
A formal model for service-oriented interactions,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 77, Issue 5,
2012,
Pages 577-608,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2011.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642311002255)
Abstract: In this paper, we provide a mathematical semantics for a fragment of a language–SRML–that we have defined in the IST-FET-GC2 Integrated Project SENSORIA for modelling service-oriented systems. The main goal of this research is to make available a foundational basis for the development of practical modelling languages and tools that designers can use to model complex services at a level of abstraction that captures business functionality independently of the languages in which services are implemented and the platforms in which they execute. The basic artefact of the language is the service module, which provides a model for a complex service in terms of a number of components that jointly orchestrate a business function and may dynamically discover and bind to external parties that can deliver required functionalities. We define a mathematical model of computation and an associated logic for service-oriented systems based on the typical business conversations that occur between the parties that deliver a service. We then define the semantics of SRML service modules over this model and logic, and formulate a property of correctness that guarantees that services programmed and assembled as specified in a module provide the business functionality advertised by that module. Finally, we define an algebraic operation of composition of service modules that preserves correctness. To the best of our knowledge, there is no other formal approach that has been defined from first principles with the aim of capturing the business nature of service conversations and support service assembly based on the business logic that is required, not as it is programmed.
Keywords: Conversational protocols; Formal methods; Labelled transition systems; Orchestration; Service-oriented computing; Temporal logic

Maira B. Carvalho, Francesco Bellotti, Riccardo Berta, Alessandro De Gloria, Giorgia Gazzarata, Jun Hu, Michael Kickmeier-Rust,
A case study on Service-Oriented Architecture for Serious Games,
Entertainment Computing,
Volume 6,
2015,
Pages 1-10,
ISSN 1875-9521,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcom.2014.11.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875952114000445)
Abstract: Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is a set of practices for architectural design of software that exploits services as loosely coupled components orchestrated to deliver various functionalities. The SOA paradigm is not well established in the Serious Games (SG) domain, but it is expected to provide benefits, particularly in reducing the conceptual and technological complexity of the development. In this paper, we propose and study the application of a SOA approach to SG development. We have used the SOA approach to develop an adaptive Serious Game for teaching basic elements of probability to high school and entry-level university students, called The Journey. Details of the architecture implementation are offered, as well as the results of an evaluation of the system using the Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method (ATAM). Based on our experience, we argue that the SOA approach can make SG development shorter, more flexible and more focused.
Keywords: Adaptive Serious Games; Games for learning; Serious Games; Serious Games development; Service Oriented Architecture; Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method

Mark Anderson, Joseph Bolton,
A service-oriented framework for collating retail intelligence,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 80,
2018,
Pages 400-408,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.07.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17314693)
Abstract: This paper presents a case study that explores the impact of a software development project on a Small to Medium Enterprise in the United Kingdom as a means of delivering improved understanding of data in the retail sector. In this paper, the link between the actions undertaken by management in retail and the relationship with the environment provided by IT systems is considered. Many retailers in the United Kingdom make use of sensor devices to understand the behaviour of their customers. As retail outlets grow over a period of time, the diversity of sensor devices may change as new devices are installed. Equally, outlets that are operated within retail groups will collect and store data locally. As a consequence, management within the retail sector face a number of challenges to understand the operation of individual outlets and the holistic performance of retail chains. As a result, both the IT systems and also the working practices employed to complete the day to day tasks essential to meet the needs of a retailer’s customers rapidly become unfit for purpose. The case study considered in this paper reviews the requisite practices adopted by a service provider in the business intelligence sector, and the positive impact that the company realised through the re-engineering of both IT systems and business workflows. This paper demonstrates the efficacy of applying current software engineering methods to the redesign of IT-based business practices as opposed to more traditional approaches.
Keywords: Distributed applications; Software architectures; Web-based service

Raffaela Mirandola, Pasqualina Potena, Patrizia Scandurra,
Adaptation space exploration for service-oriented applications,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 80, Part B,
2014,
Pages 356-384,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2013.09.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642313002475)
Abstract: Service-oriented applications may require adaptation to tackle changing user needs, system intrusions or faults, changing operational environment, resource variability, etc. In order to achieve the right trade off among the functional requirements, software qualities (such as performance and reliability) and the adaptation cost itself, the adaptation decisions should involve the (a priori) evaluation of new alternatives to the current application design. However, the generation and evaluation of design alternatives is often time-consuming, it can be error-prone and can lead to suboptimal design decisions, especially if carried out manually by system maintainers. This article proposes an automatic optimization process for adaptation space exploration of service-oriented applications based on trade-offs between functional and extra-functional requirements. The proposed method combines the use of metaheuristic search techniques and functional/extra-functional patterns (i.e., architectural design patterns and tactics). Besides, the proposed methodology relies on the standard Service Component Architecture (SCA) for heterogeneous service assembly and its runtime platforms. As a proof-of-concept, this article provides also an example of instantiation of the process together with an experimentation on a sample application and a numerical evaluation of the scalability of the approach.
Keywords: Service-oriented applications; Software adaptation and evolution; Functional/extra-functional requirements; Optimization techniques

Jose V. Espí-Beltrán, Virgilio Gilart-Iglesias, Daniel Ruiz-Fernández,
Enabling distributed manufacturing resources through SOA: The REST approach,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 46,
2017,
Pages 156-165,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2016.09.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073658451630309X)
Abstract: The Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is quite established in enterprise environments as a pattern for software integration. However, traditional industrial architecture based on a vertical hierarchy is still used in old manufacturing organizations, making it difficult to reach the new requirements in industrial automation. There are works related with the use of SOA WS-* stack based frameworks, but this paradigm is not optimal due to the overhead in communication protocols. From this point of view, we propose a lightweight SOA architectural model based on the use of RESTful style for design and modeling of industrial processes. The aim is to explore a low developed research area to improve interoperability and flexibility in certain demanding manufacturing scenarios while similar performance of current industrial control standard is achieved. Theoretical advantages are presented and experimentally evaluated. In the evaluation, a prototype of the lightweight RESTful Framework and several scenarios of industrial devices are presented and response times are measured using two different RESTful protocols: HTTP and CoAP. From the results obtained it can be concluded that the performance of SOA with REST in industrial environments is suitable for current needs.
Keywords: Service Oriented Architecture (SOA); REST; CoAP; Industrial automation

Dariusz Król, Jacek Kitowski,
Self-scalable services in service oriented software for cost-effective data farming,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 54,
2016,
Pages 1-15,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2015.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X15002265)
Abstract: Software maintenance is one of the major concerns in service oriented ecosystem with an ever-increasing importance. In many cases, the cost of software maintenance is higher than the cost of software development. In particular, long-lasting services, which operate in a dynamically changing environment, require continuous management and administration. One of the important administration actions is scaling management. The problem lies in responding to workload changes of the hosted services as fast as possible. This is especially important in regard to (but not limited to) cloud environments where unnecessary resource usage leads to unnecessary costs. In this paper, we are introducing the self-scalable services and scaling rules, which are intended to support development of self-scalable systems based on Service Oriented Architecture. We propose a design of a self-scalable service based on some of the well-known software development practices along with a definition of scaling rules, which express scaling policy for the service. Both concepts were evaluated in the context of a massively scalable platform for data farming. The evaluation demonstrates advantages of utilizing the proposed concepts to manage the platform in comparison with traditional platform management strategies based on fulfilling peak load.
Keywords: Self-scalability; Autonomous computing; Service Oriented Architecture; Data farming

Oscar Cabrera, Xavier Franch, Jordi Marco,
Ontology-based context modeling in service-oriented computing: A systematic mapping,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 110,
2017,
Pages 24-53,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2017.03.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X16301380)
Abstract: Context
Service-oriented computing and context-aware computing are two consolidated paradigms that are changing the way of providing and consuming software services. Whilst service-oriented computing is based on service-oriented architectures for providing flexible software services, context-aware computing articulates different phases of a context life cycle for changing the behavior of such services. The synergy between both paradigms provides the context to this study.
Objective
This study analyzes the current state of the art of context models, specifically: (1) which are these proposals and how are they related; (2) what are their structural characteristics; (3) what context information is the most addressed; and (4) what are their most consolidated definitions. Given their dominance on the field, the study focuses on ontology-based approaches.
Method
We conducted a systematic mapping by establishing a review protocol that integrates automatic and manual searches from different sources. We applied a rigorous method to elicit the keywords from the research questions and selection criteria to retrieve the papers to evaluate.
Results
Overall, 138 primary studies were selected to answer our research questions. These proposals were studied in depth by analyzing: 1) distribution along time and their relationships; 2) size correlated with the number of classes and levels of the context model, and coverage of the definitions provided as indicator of quality provided; 3) most addressed context information; 4) most consolidated definitions of context information.
Conclusions
The contribution of this survey is to make available a unified and consolidated body of knowledge on context for service-oriented computing that could be instantiated and used as starting point in a variety of use cases. This sweeping view on the anatomy of context models may help avoiding the postulation of new proposals not aligned with the current research.
Keywords: Context-aware computing; Context modeling; Ontology; Service-oriented computing; Systematic mapping

Peng Yue, Yaxing Wei, Liping Di, Lianlian He, Jianya Gong, Liangpei Zhang,
Sharing geospatial provenance in a service-oriented environment,
Computers, Environment and Urban Systems,
Volume 35, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 333-343,
ISSN 0198-9715,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2011.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0198971511000275)
Abstract: One of the earliest investigations of provenance was inspired by applications in GIS in the early 1990’s. Provenance records the processing history of a data product. It provides an information context to help users determine the reliability of data products. Conventional provenance applications in GIS focus on provenance capture, representation, and usage in a stand-alone environment such as a desktop-based GIS software system. They cannot support wide sharing and open access of provenance in a distributed environment. The growth of service-oriented sharing and processing of geospatial data brings some new challenges in provenance-aware applications. One is how to share geospatial provenance in an interoperable way. This paper describes the development of provenance service for geospatial data products using the ebXML Registry Information Model (ebRIM) of a geospatial catalog service, which follows the interface specifications of the OGC Catalogue Services for the Web (CSW). This approach fits well the current service stack of the GIS domain and facilitates the management of geospatial data provenance in an open and distributed environment.
Keywords: Geospatial Web Service; CSW; ebRIM; Service chaining; Data provenance; GIS

Ayesha Khanna,
Chapter 3 - Service-Oriented Architecture,
Editor(s): Ayesha Khanna,
In Complete Technology Guides for Financial Services,
Straight Through Processing for Financial Services,
Academic Press,
2008,
Pages 51-67,
ISBN 9780124664708,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012466470-8.50005-0.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780124664708500050)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
Competition, regulation, and new business models are driving firms to upgrade their IT systems for straight through processing (STP). This chapter recommends technologies for implementing this STP infrastructure. It is essential for technology managers to have a strategic rather than a tactical approach when investigating technology solutions for business requirements. The tactical approach is to immediately start drawing up business requirements and then mapping out system developments. The strategic approach is to stand back and evaluate the holistic technology needs of the enterprise and then identify points where a particular technology can be leveraged across different departments. By reusing software modules across lines of business in this manner, both resources and time can be saved. Service-oriented architecture (SOA) is the result of a collection of ideas and patterns that have evolved to meet more complex business requirements across industries, including the financial services industry. In essence, it is a set of loosely coupled services that represent business processes and communicate with each other via standard interfaces across a message bus. Moving to SOA can be costly initially, but in the long run, it provides better capability to integrate heterogeneous systems. It also lowers costs due to reusable component-based design and provides higher return on investment given its use of services, which can be accessed by multiple lines of business.

Pierre America, Piërre van de Laar, Gerrit Muller,
Experiences in evolvability research,
Advanced Engineering Informatics,
Volume 26, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 478-486,
ISSN 1474-0346,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2012.05.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034612000511)
Abstract: Many technical products and systems nowadays have functionality that is largely determined by software, so called software-intensive systems. The requirements for software-intensive systems change over time, causing the system to evolve. We define evolvability as the ability of the system to respond to such changes. Improving evolvability of software-intensive systems was the goal of the Darwin project. The vision of this project consisted of four cornerstones. In this paper we share the obtained experiences, insights, and results. We have collected some evidence that three of the vision’s cornerstones, which are about knowledge, i.e., extracting knowledge, representing knowledge, and economic decision making, improve evolvability. The representation of knowledge in A3 architecture overviews is the result with the most evidence that it is useful in practice.
Keywords: Evolvability

David Ameller, Xavier Burgués, Oriol Collell, Dolors Costal, Xavier Franch, Mike P. Papazoglou,
Development of service-oriented architectures using model-driven development: A mapping study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 62,
2015,
Pages 42-66,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2015.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584915000361)
Abstract: Context
Model-Driven Development (MDD) and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) are two challenging research areas in software engineering. MDD is about improving software development whilst SOA is a service-based conceptual development style, therefore investigating the available proposals in the literature to use MDD when developing SOA may be insightful. However, no studies have been found with this purpose.
Objective
This work aims at assessing the state of the art in MDD for SOA systems. It mainly focuses on: what are the characteristics of MDD approaches that support SOA; what types of SOA are supported; how do they handle non-functional requirements.
Method
We conducted a mapping study following a rigorous protocol. We identified the representative set of venues that should be included in the study. We applied a search string over the set of selected venues. As result, 129 papers were selected and analysed (both frequency analysis and correlation analysis) with respect to the defined classification criteria derived from the research questions. Threats to validity were identified and mitigated whenever possible.
Results
The analysis allows us to answer the research questions. We highlight: (1) predominance of papers from Europe and written by researchers only; (2) predominance of top-down transformation in software development activities; (3) inexistence of consolidated methods; (4) significant percentage of works without tool support; (5) SOA systems and service compositions more targeted than single services and SOA enterprise systems; (6) limited use of metamodels; (7) very limited use of NFRs; and (8) limited application in real cases.
Conclusion
This mapping study does not just provide the state of the art in the topic, but also identifies several issues that deserve investigation in the future, for instance the need of methods for activities other than software development (e.g., migration) or the need of conducting more real case studies.
Keywords: Service-oriented architecture; Model-driven development; SOA; MDD; State of the art; Mapping study

Plácido A. Souza Neto, Genoveva Vargas-Solar, Umberto Souza da Costa, Martin A. Musicante,
Designing service-based applications in the presence of non-functional properties: A mapping study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 69,
2016,
Pages 84-105,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2015.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584915001573)
Abstract: Context
The development of distributed software systems has become an important problem for the software engineering community. Service-based applications are a common solution for this kind of systems. Services provide a uniform mechanism for discovering, integrating and using these resources. In the development of service based applications not only the functionality of services and compositions should be considered, but also conditions in which the system operates. These conditions are called non-functional requirements (NFR). The conformance of applications to NFR is crucial to deliver software that meets the expectations of its users.
Objective
This paper presents the results of a systematic mapping carried out to analyze how NFR have been addressed in the development of service-based applications in the last years, according to different points of view.
Method
Our analysis applies the systematic mapping approach. It focuses on the analysis of publications organized by categories called facets, which are combined to answer specific research questions. The facets compose a classification schema which is part of the contribution and results.
Results
This paper presents our findings on how NFR have been supported in the development of service-based applications by proposing a classification scheme consisting in five facets: (i) programming paradigm (object/service oriented); (ii) contribution (methodology, system, middleware); (iii) software process phase; (iv) technique or mathematical model used for expressing NFR; and (v) the types of NFR addressed by the papers, based on the classification proposed by the ISO/IEC 9126 specification. The results of our systematic mapping are presented as bubble charts that provide a quantitative analysis to show the frequencies of publications for each facet. The paper also proposes a qualitative analysis based on these plots. This analysis discusses how NFR (quality properties) have been addressed in the design and development of service-based applications, including methodologies, languages and tools devised to support different phases of the software process.
Conclusion
This systematic mapping showed that NFR are not fully considered in all software engineering phases for building service based applications. The study also let us conclude that work has been done for providing models and languages for expressing NFR and associated middleware for enforcing them at run time. An important finding is that NFR are not fully considered along all software engineering phases and this opens room for proposing methodologies that fully model NFR. The data collected by our work and used for this systematic mapping are available in https://github.com/placidoneto/systematic-mapping_service-based-app_nfr.
Keywords: Non-functional requirements; Service-based software process; Systematic mapping

W.T. Tsai, Xin Sun, Qian Huang, Helen Karatza,
An ontology-based collaborative service-oriented simulation framework with Microsoft Robotics Studio®,
Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,
Volume 16, Issue 9,
2008,
Pages 1392-1414,
ISSN 1569-190X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.simpat.2008.07.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1569190X08001421)
Abstract: In Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), the concepts that services can be discovered and application can be composed via service discovery bring great flexibility to application development [Y. Chen, W.T. Tsai, Distributed Service-Oriented Software Development, Kendall/Hunt, 2008, [4]]. Microsoft Robotics Studio (MSRS) is a recent initiative in applying SOA to embedded systems and one of its key features is its 3-D simulation tool that allows applications to be simulated before deployment. This paper proposes an ontology-based service-oriented simulation framework with MSRS by adding a set of ontology systems, i.e., service ontology, workflow ontology, entity ontology, and environment ontology. These ontology systems store relevant information useful to compose simulation applications, and items stored also cross reference to each other to facilitate reusability and rapid application composition, This paper then provides a detailed case study on a popular robotic game Sumobot using MSRS to illustrate the key concepts and how they can support rapid simulation development.1The contents of this paper were developed under a grant from US Department of Defense and the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE), US Department of Education. However, these contents do not necessarily represent the policy of the Department of Education, and you should not assume endorsement by the Federal Government.1
Keywords: Service-oriented computing; Simulation framework; Ontology; Robotics Studio; Model-driven development

Hasse Nylund, Paul H. Andersson,
Simulation of service-oriented and distributed manufacturing systems,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 26, Issue 6,
2010,
Pages 622-628,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2010.07.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736584510000888)
Abstract: In this paper modeling and simulation is discussed in the context of distributed manufacturing systems (DiMS). The DiMS concept aims towards efficient and innovative collaboration that integrates design and development activities of manufacturing systems. A DiMS, described formally as a digital manufacturing system, is a competent basis for the modeling and simulation of manufacturing systems. The activities of the simulation model are described on the basis of a service-oriented approach in which content of the services is completely known. Micro, meso, and macro manufacturing levels are applied to the modeling and simulation. By means of these levels the hierarchy of the communication of the services is illustrated. An example is described in which modeling and simulation is used to proceed from ideas to efficiently operated manufacturing systems.
Keywords: Simulation; Modeling; Manufacturing; Service; Knowledge-based system

Jacopo Mauro, Michael Nieke, Christoph Seidl, Ingrid Chieh Yu,
Context-aware reconfiguration in evolving software product lines,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 163,
2018,
Pages 139-159,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2018.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642318301692)
Abstract: Software Product Lines (SPLs) are a mechanism for large-scale reuse where families of related software systems are represented in terms of commonalities and variabilities, e.g., using Feature Models (FMs). While FMs define all possible configurations of an SPL, when considering dynamic SPLs and environmental conditions, not every possible configuration may be valid in all possible contexts. A change in the environment may, therefore, require the reconfiguration of the SPL. With common modeling methodologies, it is not possible to capture the correlation of configuration options, contextual influences, user customizations, and evolution. In this paper, we remedy this problem by first defining a novel framework that allows modeling customizable evolving context-aware SPLs. We then provide a reconfiguration engine that computes how the current configuration needs to be reconfigured when the context is altered, the user preferences changed or the SPL artifacts are evolved and the configuration is adapted to reflect the evolved artifacts.
Keywords: SPL; Optimization; Preferences; Context-aware

Waldemar Hummer, Patrick Gaubatz, Mark Strembeck, Uwe Zdun, Schahram Dustdar,
Enforcement of entailment constraints in distributed service-based business processes,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 1884-1903,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2013.05.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584913001006)
Abstract: Context
A distributed business process is executed in a distributed computing environment. The service-oriented architecture (SOA) paradigm is a popular option for the integration of software services and execution of distributed business processes. Entailment constraints, such as mutual exclusion and binding constraints, are important means to control process execution. Mutually exclusive tasks result from the division of powerful rights and responsibilities to prevent fraud and abuse. In contrast, binding constraints define that a subject who performed one task must also perform the corresponding bound task(s).
Objective
We aim to provide a model-driven approach for the specification and enforcement of task-based entailment constraints in distributed service-based business processes.
Method
Based on a generic metamodel, we define a domain-specific language (DSL) that maps the different modeling-level artifacts to the implementation-level. The DSL integrates elements from role-based access control (RBAC) with the tasks that are performed in a business process. Process definitions are annotated using the DSL, and our software platform uses automated model transformations to produce executable WS-BPEL specifications which enforce the entailment constraints. We evaluate the impact of constraint enforcement on runtime performance for five selected service-based processes from existing literature.
Results
Our evaluation demonstrates that the approach correctly enforces task-based entailment constraints at runtime. The performance experiments illustrate that the runtime enforcement operates with an overhead that scales well up to the order of several ten thousand logged invocations. Using our DSL annotations, the user-defined process definition remains declarative and clean of security enforcement code.
Conclusion
Our approach decouples the concerns of (non-technical) domain experts from technical details of entailment constraint enforcement. The developed framework integrates seamlessly with WS-BPEL and the Web services technology stack. Our prototype implementation shows the feasibility of the approach, and the evaluation points to future work and further performance optimizations.
Keywords: Identity and access management; Business process management; Entailment constraints; Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA); WS-BPEL

Shangguang Wang, Yan Gong, Guangxiao Chen, Qibo Sun, Fangchun Yang,
Service vulnerability scanning based on service-oriented architecture in Web service environments,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 59, Issue 9,
2013,
Pages 731-739,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2013.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762113000143)
Abstract: Web services are becoming the critical components of business application, but they are often invoked with critical software and application bugs that can be explored by malicious users. Because the existing centralized vulnerability scanning systems often face performance bottleneck because of huge amount of tasks, a novel service vulnerability scanning scheme is high desirable. In this paper, we propose a service vulnerability scanning scheme based on service-oriented architecture (SoA) in Web service environments. The scanning scheme contains three components, i.e., domain-oriented distributed architecture, service providing mode based on SoA and hierarchical strategy scheduling model. The hierarchical strategy scheduling model is the key of the scanning scheme, which is used to solve the problems of distributed scheduling management in vulnerability scanning process for Web service environments. We conduct a centralized scanner to compare our scheme with other schemes by the implement of prototype system. Experimental results show that our proposed scheme outperforms other schemes with respect to time cost, accuracy and load.
Keywords: Web service; Vulnerability scanning; Distributed architecture; Service-oriented architecture

J. Wolfert, C.N. Verdouw, C.M. Verloop, A.J.M. Beulens,
Organizing information integration in agri-food—A method based on a service-oriented architecture and living lab approach,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
Volume 70, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 389-405,
ISSN 0168-1699,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2009.07.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169909001458)
Abstract: Agri-food enterprises operate in a complex and dynamic environment. To meet increasing demands of consumers, government and business partners, enterprises continuously have to work on innovations of products, processes and ways of cooperation in agri-food supply chain networks (AFSCN). Hence, a development towards a more knowledge-based economy is needed. The Lisbon strategy, launched by the European Union, to attain this knowledge-based economy, has failed so far. This paper argues that information sharing and organizing ICT are main critical areas to overcome this deadlock. However, ICT development in AFSCN involves an information integration task that has to deal with technical and organizational requirements and starts with an existing installed base. Traditional software engineering approaches are inadequate to address these issues. This paper provides an overall method for analysis, design and implementation of information integration, taking technical as well as organizational development into account. The method was derived from experiences in a research and development program in the Dutch arable farming sector. A generic integration framework forms the backbone of the method to ensure systematic and sustainable ICT development. Business process management (BPM), in combination with reference information models, plays an important role. The technical architecture and infrastructure are based on a service-oriented architecture (SOA). Attention is paid to the organizational infrastructure that is needed to embed the results in the right context, so that they will be broadly supported and used. The method is divided into three phases: analysis, basic design and iterative implementation. Analysis of the current situation in AFSCN is supported by an information integration framework. The basic design is a first version of the generic integration framework. In the iterative implementation phase, pilot projects are guided by this basic design, which results in incremental growth of the framework. The pilot projects follow a Living Lab (LL) approach. LLs represent a user-centric, open innovation approach for sensing, prototyping, validating and refining complex solutions in multiple and evolving real life contexts. The method is illustrated by an application to the Dutch arable farming sector. It can be concluded that the contribution of the presented method lies in combining different methodologies into a design approach for information integration, based on a sound architecture. The presented method leads to ICT that follows the business processes in real life and thus enhances appropriate information sharing to support a knowledge-based economy.
Keywords: Information integration; Service-oriented architecture (SOA); Business process management (BPM); Open innovation; Interoperability; Arable farming

Daniel A. Menascé, Honglei Ruan, Hassan Gomaa,
QoS management in service-oriented architectures,
Performance Evaluation,
Volume 64, Issues 7–8,
2007,
Pages 646-663,
ISSN 0166-5316,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.peva.2006.10.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166531606000940)
Abstract: The next generation of software systems will be highly distributed, component-based and service-oriented. They will need to operate in unattended mode and possibly in hostile environments, will be composed of a large number of ‘replaceable’ components discoverable at run-time, and will have to run on a multitude of unknown and heterogeneous hardware and network platforms. This paper focuses on QoS management in service-oriented architectures in which service providers (SP) provide a set of interrelated services to service consumers, and a QoS broker mediates QoS negotiations between SPs and consumers. The main contributions of this paper are: (i) the description of an architecture that includes a QoS broker and service provider software components, (ii) the specification of a secure protocol for QoS negotiation with the support of a QoS broker, (iii) the specification of an admission control mechanism used by SPs, (iv) a report on the implementation of the QoS broker and SPs, and (v) the experimental validation of the ideas presented in the paper.
Keywords: QoS; Service oriented architectures; Performance; QoS broker

Paola Y. Reyes-Delgado, Manuel Mora, Hector A. Duran-Limon, Laura C. Rodríguez-Martínez, Rory V. O'Connor, Ricardo Mendoza-Gonzalez,
The strengths and weaknesses of software architecture design in the RUP, MSF, MBASE and RUP-SOA methodologies: A conceptual review,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 47,
2016,
Pages 24-41,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2016.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548916300058)
Abstract: The importance of Software Architecture (SA) design has been acknowledged as a very important factor for a high-quality software development. Different efforts in both industry and academia have produced multiple system development methodologies (SDMs) that include SA design activities. In addition, standardization bodies have defined different recommendations regarding Software Architecture design. However, in industry Software Architecture best practices are currently poorly employed. This fact constrains the benefits that industry can potentially obtain from Software Architecture design in software development. In this paper, we analyze the degree to which the four main recognized SDMs — RUP (Rational Unified Process), MSF (Microsoft Solutions Framework), MBASE (Model-Based System Architecting and Software Engineering), and RUP-SOA (Rational Unified Process for Service-oriented Architecture) — adhere to the best practices of Software Architecture design. Our analysis points out some of the most important strengths and weaknesses regarding Software Architecture design and highlights some of the most relevant issues of Software Architecture design that need to be incorporated into such methodologies.
Keywords: Software Architecture design; Software aArchitecture design in SDMs (RUP, MSF, MBASE, RUP-SOA); General model of Software Architecture design

Valeria De Castro, Esperanza Marcos, Juan Manuel Vara,
Applying CIM-to-PIM model transformations for the service-oriented development of information systems,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 53, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 87-105,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910001588)
Abstract: Context
Model-driven approaches deal with the provision of models, transformations between them and code generators to address software development. This approach has the advantage of defining a conceptual structure, where the models used by business managers and analysts can be mapped into more detailed models used by software developers. This alignment between high-level business specifications and the lower-level information technologies (ITs) models is crucial to the field of service-oriented development, where meaningful business services and process specifications are those relevant to real business scenarios.
Objective
This paper presents a model-driven approach which, starting from high-level computational-independent business models (CIMs) – the business view – sets out guidelines for obtaining lower-level platform-independent behavioural models (PIMs) – the information system view. A key advantage of our approach is the use of real high-level business models, not just requirements models, which, by means of model transformations, helps software developers to make the most of the business knowledge for specifying and developing business services.
Method
This proposal is framed in a method for service-oriented development of information systems whose main characteristic is the use of services as first-class objects. The method follows an MDA-based approach, proposing a set of models at different levels of abstraction and model transformations to connect them.
Results
The paper present the complete set of CIM and PIM metamodels and the specification of the mappings between them, which clear advantage is the support for the alignment between high-level business view and ITs. The proposed model-driven process is being implemented in an MDA tool. A first prototype has been used to develop a travel agency case study that illustrates the proposal.
Conclusion
This study shows how a model-driven approach helps to solve the alignment problem between the business view and the information system view that arises when adopting service-oriented approaches for software development.
Keywords: Service-oriented engineering; Model-driven development; Business models; Information systems; Model transformations

Hongyu Pei Breivold, Ivica Crnkovic, Magnus Larsson,
Software architecture evolution through evolvability analysis,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 85, Issue 11,
2012,
Pages 2574-2592,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2012.05.085.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016412121200163X)
Abstract: Software evolvability is a multifaceted quality attribute that describes a software system's ability to easily accommodate future changes. It is a fundamental characteristic for the efficient implementation of strategic decisions, and the increasing economic value of software. For long life systems, there is a need to address evolvability explicitly during the entire software lifecycle in order to prolong the productive lifetime of software systems. However, designing and evolving software architectures are the challenging task. To improve the ability to understand and systematically analyze the evolution of software system architectures, in this paper, we describe software architecture evolution characterization, and propose an architecture evolvability analysis process that provides replicable techniques for performing activities to aim at understanding and supporting software architecture evolution. The activities are embedded in: (i) the application of a software evolvability model; (ii) a structured qualitative method for analyzing evolvability at the architectural level; and (iii) a quantitative evolvability analysis method with explicit and quantitative treatment of stakeholders’ evolvability concerns and the impact of potential architectural solutions on evolvability. The qualitative and quantitative assessments manifested in the evolvability analysis process have been applied in two large-scale industrial software systems at ABB and Ericsson, with experiences and reflections described.
Keywords: Software architecture evolution; Software evolvability

Faramarz Safi Esfahani, Masrah Azrifah Azmi Murad, Md. Nasir B. Sulaiman, Nur Izura Udzir,
Adaptable Decentralized Service Oriented Architecture,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 84, Issue 10,
2011,
Pages 1591-1617,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.03.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121211000744)
Abstract: In the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), BPEL specified business processes are executed by non-scalable centralized orchestration engines. In order to address the scalability issue, decentralized orchestration engines are applied, which decentralize BPEL processes into static fragments at design time without considering runtime requirements. The fragments are then encapsulated into runtime components such as agents. There are a variety of attitudes towards workflow decentralization; however, only a few of them produce adaptable fragments with runtime environment. In this paper, producing runtime adaptable fragments is presented in two aspects. The first one is frequent-path adaptability that is equal to finding closely interrelated activities and encapsulating them in the same fragment to omit the communication cost of the activities. Another aspect is proportional-fragment adaptability, which is analogous to the proportionality of produced fragments with number of workflow engine machines. It extenuates the internal communication among the fragments on the same machine. An ever-changing runtime environment along with the mentioned adaptability aspects may result in producing a variety of process versions at runtime. Thus, an Adaptable and Decentralized Workflow Execution Framework (ADWEF) is introduced that proposes an abstraction of adaptable decentralization in the SOA orchestration layer. Furthermore, ADWEF architectures Type-1 and Type-2 are presented to support the execution of fragments created by two decentralization methods, which produce customized fragments known as Hierarchical Process Decentralization (HPD) and Hierarchical Intelligent Process Decentralization (HIPD). However, mapping the current system conditions to a suitable decentralization method is considered as future work. Evaluations of the ADWEF decentralization methods substantiate both adaptability aspects and demonstrate a range of improvements in response-time, throughput, and bandwidth-usage compared to previous methods.
Keywords: Dynamic software; Self-* systems; Self-adaptive systems; Service Oriented Architecture; Workflow Decentralization; Distributed orchestration engine; BPEL; Process mining

Alireza Hassanzadeh, Leila Namdarian, Sha’ban Elahi,
Developing a framework for evaluating service oriented architecture governance (SOAG),
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 24, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 716-730,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2011.02.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705111000396)
Abstract: Today, service oriented architecture (SOA) has created the opportunities to improve agility and speed in aligning business needs with information technology infrastructure. Most of the organizations in the process of applying this technology encounter with challenges and may have failure despite of spending a lot of energy and huge investments. Therefore they need to implement a service oriented framework for governance. The organizations require a framework to assess their current status of SOA governance, determine their SOA governance requirements and then offer a suitable model for their SOA governance. The aim of this study is development of a framework for evaluating SOA governance. Data collection tool is questionnaire and in order to test the proposed framework, a sample of 16 experts in the field of SOA was included. The results confirm the proposed framework. Then in order to evaluation of the confirmed framework; it was implemented in an Iranian private bank.
Keywords: Service oriented architecture; Service oriented architecture maturity; Service oriented architecture governance; Service oriented architecture adoption; SOA governance evaluation

Hongda Wang, Jianchun Xing, Qiliang Yang, Ping Wang, Xuewei Zhang, Deshuai Han,
Optimal control based regression test selection for service-oriented workflow applications,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 124,
2017,
Pages 274-288,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2016.06.065.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121216300942)
Abstract: Regression test selection, which is well known as an effective technology to ensure the quality of modified BPEL applications, is regarded as an optimal control issue. The BPEL applications under test serves as a controlled object and the regression test selection strategy functions as the corresponding controller. The performance index is to select fewest test cases to test modified BPEL applications. In addition, a promising controller (regression test selection approach) should be safe, which means that it can select all test cases in which faults might be exposed in modified versions under controlled regression testing from the original test suite. However, existing safe controllers may rerun some test cases without exposing fault. In addition, the unique features (e.g., dead path elimination semantics, communication mechanism, multi-assignment etc.) of BPEL applications also raise enormous problems in regression test selection. To address these issues, we present in this paper a safe optimal controller for BPEL applications. Firstly, to handle the unique features mentioned above, we transform BPEL applications and their modified versions into universal BPEL forms. Secondly, For our optimal controller, BPEL program dependence graphs corresponding to the two universal BPEL forms are established. Finally, guided by behavioral differences between the two versions, we construct an optimal controller and select test cases to be rerun. By contrast with the previous approaches, our approach can eliminate some unnecessary test cases to be selected. We conducted experiments with 8 BPEL applications to compare our approach with other typical approaches. Experimental results show that the test cases selected using our approach are fewer than other approaches.
Keywords: Software cybernetics; Optimal control; Service-oriented workflow applications; Regression test selection; Behavioral difference; BPEL program dependence graph; Safe

Gerardo Canfora, Anna Rita Fasolino, Gianni Frattolillo, Porfirio Tramontana,
A wrapping approach for migrating legacy system interactive functionalities to Service Oriented Architectures,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 81, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 463-480,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2007.06.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121207001380)
Abstract: Software systems modernisation using Service Oriented Architectures (SOAs) and Web Services represents a valuable option for extending the lifetime of mission-critical legacy systems. This paper presents a black-box modernisation approach for exposing interactive functionalities of legacy systems as Services. The problem of transforming the original user interface of the system into the request/response interface of a SOA is solved by a wrapper that is able to interact with the system on behalf of the user. The wrapper behaviour is defined in the form of Finite State Machines retrievable by black-box reverse engineering of the human–computer interface. The paper describes our wrapper-based migration process and discusses the results of case studies showing process effectiveness and quality of resulting services.
Keywords: Legacy system migration; Service Oriented Architecture; Web Service; Legacy system wrapping

Eike Schäffer, Hannes Leibinger, Axel Stamm, Matthias Brossog, Jörg Franke,
Configuration based process and knowledge management by structuring the software landscape of global operating industrial enterprises with Microservices,
Procedia Manufacturing,
Volume 24,
2018,
Pages 86-93,
ISSN 2351-9789,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2018.06.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2351978918305304)
Abstract: An increasing amount of enterprises is currently facing the topic “knowledge and process management” to be more efficient and to be able to introduce concepts of Industry 4.0. The challenge for these companies, which are mostly not Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), but medium to large component suppliers, is that they do not have resources and expertise to establish large corporate departments that will be responsible for standardization. With our concept based on Microservices (MS), we deliver a smart and straightforward system approach that can be implemented, dependent on the available resources, with little external IT support. There is no need of an organizational restructuring that goes along with major invests. Existing stand-alone tools are transferred into a common structured system.
Keywords: Configuration; knowledge management; standardisation; Microservice

Eli Hustad, Christer de Lange,
Service-oriented Architecture Projects in Practice: A Study of a Shared Document Service Implementation,
Procedia Technology,
Volume 16,
2014,
Pages 684-693,
ISSN 2212-0173,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2014.10.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212017314002448)
Abstract: This paper reports on a case study focusing on service-oriented architecture (SOA) projects in practice. The aim of these projects has been to develop a shared document service supporting different business divisions in a large Norwegian governmental institution. The research question guiding this research is: How are SOA projects carried out in practice? What are the challenges of developing shared services in service-oriented architecture? SOA projects are accompanied by a complex socio-technical system development environment. In the present study we followed parallel system development processes and identified several issues associated with competence requirements, distributed coordination principles and control, lack of communication, tuning of parallel projects, and selection of appropriate project management approaches and system development methods. Clearly, there was a difference between undertaking a system development project within one organizational unit (silo) compared to the development of shared services to provide support across a large organization. Findings demonstrate that the complexity of SOA projects was underestimated by the project managers, and ad hoc governance was practiced in terms of control, coordination, and communication. To capture the entire system development context of an SOA project, a holistic approach and mind-set comprising time management and fine tuning of all parallel SD activities is necessary. Organizational maturity to carry out SOA projects is also of significance. The study has implications for SOA adopters in general and for system developers and project managers working in an SOA context in particular.
Keywords: Service-oriented architecture; SOA projects in practice; SOA governance; SOA implementation; Scrum

Kaile Zhou, Shanlin Yang,
A framework of service-oriented operation model of China׳s power system,
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews,
Volume 50,
2015,
Pages 719-725,
ISSN 1364-0321,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.05.041.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032115005018)
Abstract: Based on the rapid development of smart grid and emerging information technologies in China, a new cloud-based power system operational model called Cloud Grid (CG) is presented in this study. CG is a service-oriented operation model of China׳s power system, which integrates the concepts and techniques of cloud computing, big data analytics, internet of things (IoTs), high performance computing, smart grid and other advanced information and communication technologies (ICTs). The power production resources, power production capacities and power resources are virtualized in CG. Moreover, it makes the power system services provided readily available, on-demand, flexible, efficient, safety and reliable for both power producers and electricity consumers. First, the concept and service model of CG are defined, and its system architecture is established. Then, the key techniques of CG are discussed. Finally, we present a brief analysis of the future developments of CG.
Keywords: Cloud Grid (CG); Power system; Cloud computing; Service-oriented model; Big data analytics

Huy Tran, Uwe Zdun, Ta’id Holmes, Ernst Oberortner, Emmanuel Mulo, Schahram Dustdar,
Compliance in service-oriented architectures: A model-driven and view-based approach,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 6,
2012,
Pages 531-552,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912000043)
Abstract: Context
Ensuring software systems conforming to multiple sources of relevant policies, laws, and regulations is significant because the consequences of infringement can be serious. Unfortunately, this goal is hardly achievable due to the divergence and frequent changes of compliance sources and the differences in perception and expertise of the involved stakeholders. In the long run, these issues lead to problems regarding complexity, understandability, maintainability, and reusability of compliance concerns.
Objective
In this article, we present a model-driven and view-based approach for addressing problems related to compliance concerns.
Method
Compliance concerns are represented using separate view models. This is achieved using domain-specific languages (DSLs) that enable non-technical and technical experts to formulate only the excerpts of the system according to their expertise and domain knowledge. The compliance implementations, reports, and documentation can be automatically generated from the models. The applicability of our approach has been validated using an industrial case study.
Results
Our approach supports stakeholders in dealing with the divergence of multiple compliance sources. The compliance controls and relevant reports and documentation are generated from the models and hence become traceable, understandable, and reusable. Because the generated artifacts are associated with the models, the compliance information won’t be lost as the system evolves. DSLs and view models convey compliance concerns to each stakeholder in a view that is most appropriate for his/her current work task.
Conclusions
Our approach lays a solid foundation for ensuring conformance to relevant laws and regulations. This approach, on the one hand, aims at addressing the variety of expertise and domain knowledge of stakeholders. On the other hand, it also aims at ensuring the explicit links between compliance sources and the corresponding implementations, reports, and documents for conducting many important tasks such as root cause analysis, auditing, and governance.
Keywords: Compliance; Model-driven; View-based; Service-oriented architectures; Process-driven SOAs; Domain-specific languages

Kimberly Thomas-Francois, Michael von Massow, Marion Joppe,
Service-oriented, sustainable, local food value chain – A case study,
Annals of Tourism Research,
Volume 65,
2017,
Pages 83-96,
ISSN 0160-7383,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annals.2017.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0160738317300713)
Abstract: Many developing countries depend on tourism as their main engine for economic development, but sustainability is often a concern. In the absence of inter-sectorial linkages between tourism and other industrial sectors, opportunities for trickledown benefits to host communities are stymied. For decades, researchers have been contending with issues related to strengthening agriculture and tourism linkages as a strategy to maximize economic linkages. This service-oriented approach to the local food supply chain is posited as a new model in which agriculture and hotel linkages can be advanced. We collected data about local food hotel supply through interviews with key stakeholders. The findings from our exemplary case study confirm that strengthening inter-sectorial linkages have benefits for stakeholders. This case study suggests that there are opportunities for tourism policies that foster local food linkages with high-end accommodation properties as a strategy to spread the economic spin off from tourism and also to encourage youth involvement in sustainable tourism development.
Keywords: Service-dominant logic; Sustainable supply chain; Sustainable development; Agriculture and tourism linkages; Case study

Marc Oriol, Xavier Franch, Jordi Marco,
Monitoring the service-based system lifecycle with SALMon,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 42, Issue 19,
2015,
Pages 6507-6521,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.03.027.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417415002213)
Abstract: Context and motivation
Service-Based Systems are highly dynamic software systems composed of several web services. In contrast to other types of systems, Service-Based Systems rely on service providers to ensure that their web services comply with the agreed Quality of Service. Delivering an adequate Quality of Service is a critical and significant challenge that requires monitoring along the different activities in the Service-Based System’s lifecycle.
Question/problem
Current monitoring systems are designed to support specific activities (e.g. service selection, adaptation, etc.), but do not fulfil the requirements of all the activities in the Service-Based System’s lifecycle.
Principal ideas/results
In this paper, we present SALMon, a QoS monitoring framework able to support the whole Service-Based System’s lifecycle. SALMon is highly versatile, since it combines different strategies for its configuration (model-based and invocation-based) and for the way it gets the Quality of Service (passive monitoring and online testing). Furthermore, its architecture supports easy extensibility with new quality attributes, independence of the technology of the monitored services and interoperability with other tools. We conducted a performance evaluation over real web services using suitable estimators for response time and evaluated both its overhead and capacity.
Contribution
SALMon provides infrastructure that can be used in very different scenarios, as exemplified in this paper, both in terms of the lifecycle’s phase addressed and the type of system (pure Service-Oriented Architecture, cloud-based systems, etc.). This diversity of situations addressed makes SALMon a significant contribution both for practitioners that may be interested in integrating a working technology in their software solutions, and for researchers who can conduct their investigation on top of a reliable infrastructure.
Keywords: Service based system; Monitoring; Quality of Service; QoS; Web service

Chongkun Xia, Yunzhou Zhang, Lei Wang, Sonya Coleman, Yanbo Liu,
Microservice-based cloud robotics system for intelligent space,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 110,
2018,
Pages 139-150,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2018.10.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092188901830040X)
Abstract: Cloud robotics (CR) is a red-hot branch of the burgeoning field of service robots that is centered on the benefits of integrating infrastructure and shared services via a cloud computing environment. Although it extends the computation power and information sharing capabilities of the network robots, the development and operations (DevOps) of the CR system are currently limited for enterprise-scale projects due to the heavy framework. In fact, current developed CR systems are typical distributed monomer architectures followed by a “top-down” design. As the scale of the applications gets larger, the operation and maintenance of CR systems will become a very difficult task. In this paper, a new architecture for a microservice-based cloud robotics system in intelligent space is proposed to solve the present dilemma. To enable this, we design a service management architecture based on a microservice to provide a highly efficient and flexible development/deployment mechanism. The container technology based on the docker engine is then used to functionally decompose the application into a set of collaborating services to ensure the software design methods, based on microservice, easy for implementation. Finally, a real experiment on SLAM (Simulation localization and mapping) in an intelligent space is implemented to verify the proposed architecture. Compared with traditional monomer architectures, the results show that the proposed framework is more productive, flexible and cost effective.
Keywords: Cloud robotics; Microservice; Container technology; Cloud computing; Intelligent space; Visual SLAM

Alexander Cameron, Markus Stumptner, Nanda Nandagopal, Wolfgang Mayer, Todd Mansell,
Rule-based peer-to-peer framework for decentralised real-time service oriented architectures,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 97, Part 2,
2015,
Pages 202-234,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2014.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642314002834)
Abstract: Modularity has been a key issue in the design and development of modern embedded Real-Time Software Systems (RTS) where modularity enables flexibility with respect to changes in platform, environment, and requirements, as well as reuse. In distributed RTS, similar ideas have led to the adoption of Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) components integrated via Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) principles and technologies that are already well-established in business-oriented information systems. However, current SOA technologies for orchestration, such as Enterprise Service Busses, do not meet strict time-dependent constraints on scalability and latency required by RTS. We present a novel approach to RTS development where the orchestration of real-time processes is decentralised among the services within a fully distributed rule-driven process framework. Our framework wraps around COTS components implementing individual processing steps in a decentralised real-time process. Our execution model incorporates real-time constraints and is configurable through message routing policies distributed as a knowledge base containing rule sets, and therefore dispenses with the need for a central orchestration component which could easily become a bottleneck. Deterministic behaviour can be achieved through the validation of the rule-sets and the use of Modular Performance Analysis (MPA). We analyse the performance of our architecture using the Real-Time Calculus and show by empirical evaluation that our method scales to a typical real-time process application found in a tactical naval combat system context.
Keywords: Service-Oriented Architectures; Rule based decentralised process execution; Real-time systems; Deterministic; Real-Time Calculus

Marcos Palacios, José García-Fanjul, Javier Tuya,
Testing in Service Oriented Architectures with dynamic binding: A mapping study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 53, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 171-189,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.11.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910002168)
Abstract: Context
Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) have emerged as a new paradigm to develop interoperable and highly dynamic applications.
Objective
This paper aims to identify the state of the art in the research on testing in Service Oriented Architectures with dynamic binding.
Method
A mapping study has been performed employing both manual and automatic search in journals, conference/workshop proceedings and electronic databases.
Results
A total of 33 studies have been reviewed in order to extract relevant information regarding a previously defined set of research questions. The detection of faults and the decision making based on the information gathered from the tests have been identified as the main objectives of these studies. To achieve these goals, monitoring and test case generation are the most proposed techniques testing both functional and non-functional properties. Furthermore, different stakeholders have been identified as participants in the tests, which are performed in specific points in time during the life cycle of the services. Finally, it has been observed that a relevant group of studies have not validated their approach yet.
Conclusions
Although we have only found 33 studies that address the testing of SOA where the discovery and binding of the services are performed at runtime, this number can be considered significant due to the specific nature of the reviewed topic. The results of this study have contributed to provide a body of knowledge that allows identifying current gaps in improving the quality of the dynamic binding in SOA using testing approaches.
Keywords: Software testing; Service Oriented Architectures; SOA; Dynamic binding; Mapping study; Systematic literature review

James Bean,
Chapter 1 - SOA—A Common Sense Definition,
Editor(s): James Bean,
In The MK/OMG Press,
SOA and Web Services Interface Design,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2010,
Pages 1-24,
ISBN 9780123748911,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374891-1.00001-0.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123748911000010)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter intends to resolve the industry impedance around service-oriented architecture (SOA) definitions. To fully understand and implement a SOA, it is critical to have a solid grounding in business and technology evolution. SOA is an architectural approach for business that includes and requires supporting technology capabilities. The types of technology capabilities include: enterprise service bus (ESB), service registry and repository (SRR), business process management (BPM), business activity monitoring (BAM), and Web services management (WSM). SOA works as an evolution in technology that becomes a business enabler and eventually a business transformer. It enables business enterprises to become more dynamic, agile, and responsive to change. A combination of consumers and services that collaborate, SOA is supported by a managed set of capabilities guided by principles, and governed by supporting standards. Consumers and services are all participants and collaborators in an SOA. They interact with one another to request services and resolve these requests. Within the definition of an SOA, a consumer is an application or piece of software that will interact with another application or piece of software as a service or possibly as an intermediary.

Hongbing Wang, Zhengping Yang, Qi Yu, Tianjing Hong, Xin Lin,
Online reliability time series prediction via convolutional neural network and long short term memory for service-oriented systems,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 159,
2018,
Pages 132-147,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2018.07.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705118303538)
Abstract: With the development of Web service technology, more and more enterprises choose to publish their own services on the Internet. However, with the increasing demands of users, it is difficult for a single service to meet the complex user requirements. To address this challenge, multiple services can be integrated by leveraging the service-oriented architecture (SOA) to generate a value-added service, referred to a service composition, where the component services are loosely coupled. However, due to the dynamic running environment, the performance of each component service (including reliability) may fluctuate. This will introduce cascading effects, which could cause the entire service system to fail. Since component services run in a dynamic environment, the parameters used to conduct reliability prediction are difficult to obtain. Therefore, online reliability prediction that ensures the runtime quality poses a grand challenge. This paper analyzes the historical response time series and throughput time series of component services, and predicts the reliability in the near future. To guarantee the stable and continuous operation of a service system, we proposed an online reliability time series prediction method by combining a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Long Short Term Memory (LSTM). The proposed approach, referred to as CL-ROP, is able to predict the reliability of a service system in the near future. We conducted a series of experiments over real service data and compared with other competitive approaches to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Service systems; Time series; Online reliability prediction; Neutral networks

Steven Capelli, Patrizia Scandurra,
A framework for early design and prototyping of service-oriented applications with design patterns,
Computer Languages, Systems & Structures,
Volume 46,
2016,
Pages 140-166,
ISSN 1477-8424,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cl.2016.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1477842415300440)
Abstract: Service-oriented computing is playing an important role in several domains. Today the biggest shift in mainstream design and programming is toward service-oriented applications. However, the service paradigm raises a bundle of problems that did not exist in traditional component-based development where abstraction, encapsulation, and modularity were the only main concerns. Due to their distributed, dynamic, and heterogeneous nature, service-oriented software applications require us to discover, document, and share new design patterns at the service- and architecture-level. Moreover, service-oriented applications are hard to design and validate, and demand for new foundational theories, modeling notations and analysis techniques. In line to such a vision, this article presents a framework, called SCA-PatternBox, to design and prototype service-oriented applications with design patterns. The framework relies on the OASIS standard Service Component Architecture (SCA) and on SCA component implementation types, such as SCA-Java, for supporting an “implementation-oriented” approach to service-oriented architecture modeling and to the definition and instantiation of design patterns. Moreover, in order to provide formally verified design patterns, SCA-PatternBox allows the formal specification and analysis of the functional behavioral aspects of a design pattern using a formal service specification language called SCA-ASM (Service Component Architecture-Abstract State Machine). As major evaluation of the framework, two case studies and lessons learned are presented. A final comparison of existing design pattern languages is also reported.
Keywords: Service modeling and prototyping; Design pattern languages; Service Component Architectures; Formal pattern specification

Francisco Huertas, Antonio Navarro,
SOA support to virtual campus advanced architectures: The VCAA canonical interfaces,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 40,
2015,
Pages 1-14,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2014.11.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548914001056)
Abstract: Virtual campuses (VCs) are becoming complex applications. Nowadays, users demand more tools, more e-learning platforms, and fewer dependencies among these platforms. To deal with these requirements the Virtual Campus Advanced Architecture project has defined multitier software architecture for VC based on the SOA integration of e-learning platforms. This solution defines a set of interfaces that standardizes the core functions of learning management systems (LMSs), so decoupling VC from LMSs and promoting its evolution towards the SaaS model. Simplicity and viability have been key issues in the development of these interfaces that have been implemented for Blackboard Learn, Moodle and Sakai.
Keywords: e-Learning; lms; Virtual campus

Jun Shen, Ghassan Beydoun, Graham Low, Lijuan Wang,
Aligning ontology-based development with service oriented systems,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 32,
2014,
Pages 263-273,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2013.08.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X13001702)
Abstract: This paper argues for placing ontologies at the centre of the software development life cycle for distributed component-based systems and, in particular, for service-oriented systems. It presents an ontology-based development process which relies on three levels of abstraction using ontologies: architecture layer, application layer and domain layer. The paper discusses the key roles of ontologies with respect to the various abstraction layers and their corresponding impact on the concomitant workproducts. In addition, a peer-to-peer-based service selecting and composing tool is suggested as a way of supporting the process. The paper presents the architecture of the proposed tool and illustrates the whole process in the development of a mobile banking application based on dynamic Web services.
Keywords: Software development life cycle; Ontologies; Agents; Multi-agent systems; Peer-to-peer systems; Service oriented systems

Juan Boubeta-Puig, Guadalupe Ortiz, Inmaculada Medina-Bulo,
MEdit4CEP: A model-driven solution for real-time decision making in SOA 2.0,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 89,
2015,
Pages 97-112,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2015.06.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705115002397)
Abstract: Organizations all around the world need to manage huge amounts of data from heterogeneous sources every day in order to conduct decision making processes. This requires them to infer what the value of such data is for the business in question through data analysis as well as acting promptly for critical or relevant situations. Complex Event Processing (CEP) is a technology that helps tackle this issue by detecting event patterns in real time. However, this technology forces domain experts to define these patterns indicating such situations and the appropriate actions to be executed in their information systems, generally based on Service-Oriented Architectures (SOAs). In particular, these users face the incommodity of implementing these patterns manually or by using editors which are not user-friendly enough. To deal with this problem, a model-driven solution for real-time decision making in event-driven SOAs is proposed and conducted in this paper. This approach allows the integration of CEP with this architecture type as well as defining CEP domain and event pattern through a graphical and intuitive editor, which also permits automatic code generation. Moreover, the solution is evaluated and its benefits are discussed. As a result, we can assert this is a novel solution for bringing CEP technology closer to any user, positively impacting on business decision making processes.
Keywords: Decision making; Complex event processing; Model-driven development; Graphical modeling editor; SOA 2.0

Vasileios Gkioulos, Erko Risthein, Stephen D. Wolthusen,
TACTICS: Validation of the security framework developed for tactical SOA,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 35,
2017,
Pages 96-105,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2017.06.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212617301588)
Abstract: Contemporary military networks and the requirements arising from future strategic planning, call for the increasing integration of information mobility and network enabled capabilities on the field. Therefore, adopting Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) concepts for the development of command and control infrastructures have become essential, since they provide modularity, flexibility and interoperability of services. Nevertheless, constraints related to infrastructure and operational aspects, render current enterprise SOA ineffective for the tactical domain. Accordingly, the goal of TACTICS was the definition and experimental demonstration of a Tactical Services Infrastructure (TSI) that enables contemporary tactical radio equipment to participate in SOA, providing the required functionalities under the imposed constraints. This article presents a comprehensive view of the developed architecture, focusing on the elements that constitute the security framework according to our closing experimental results and field demonstrations.
Keywords: Ad-hoc; Security; Service oriented architectures; Tactical networks; Tactical service infrastructure

Donglai Zhu, Yinsheng Li, Junshuai Shi, Yingxiao Xu, Weiming Shen,
A service-oriented city portal framework and collaborative development platform,
Information Sciences,
Volume 179, Issue 15,
2009,
Pages 2606-2617,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2009.01.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025509000668)
Abstract: Cities are being equipped with multiple information systems to provide public services for city officials, officers, citizens, and tourists. There have been concerns with efficient service implementation and provision, e.g., data islands and function overlaps between systems and applications. Service-oriented portals are efficient at facilitating information sharing and collaborative work between city systems and users. The goal of this research is to make cities responsive, agile and to provide composite services efficiently and cost efficiently. A service-oriented framework for city portals is proposed to design, integrate and streamline city systems and applications. A model driven collaborative development platform of the proposed framework was developed for service-oriented digital portals. The architecture and implementation issues of the platform are discussed. The service identification policies are discussed within the framework. A case study has been developed and evaluated on the platform to provide a composite service, i.e., a traffic search service on a city portal.
Keywords: Service-oriented architecture; Web services; Digital city; Service-oriented portal; Model driven architecture

Zhaohui Wu, Shuiguang Deng, Jian Wu,
Chapter 2 - Service-Oriented Architecture and Web Services,
Editor(s): Zhaohui Wu, Shuiguang Deng, Jian Wu,
Service Computing,
Academic Press,
2015,
Pages 17-42,
ISBN 9780128023303,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-802330-3.00002-3.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128023303000023)
Abstract: Service-oriented architecture (SOA), a hot topic in software design and development, is independent of any vendor, product, or technology. Web services, which make functional building blocks accessible over standard Internet protocols, independent of platforms and programing languages, can implement a SOA. This chapter will first provide an overview of web services, SOA, service component architecture, and service data objects. Then some open-source platforms for SOA will be introduced.
Keywords: Servie component architecture; Service data objects; Service-oriented architecture; Web service

Claudia M. Sosa-Reyna, Edgar Tello-Leal, David Lara-Alabazares,
Methodology for the model-driven development of service oriented IoT applications,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 90,
2018,
Pages 15-22,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2018.08.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762118301875)
Abstract: The main problem with the current technology solutions for Internet of Things (IoT) is located at the application level, in which there is still a lack of software components, frameworks, and tools which can help end-users to easily develop IoT applications and to manage the things or objects. These requirements lead to the use of the principles of Model-Driven Development (MDD) and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) for the construction of software applications, allowing the generation of models at different levels of abstraction, with the possibility of generating software implementation artifacts (code) on different platforms, as well as allow the decomposition of complex and monolithic systems into loosely coupled components. In this paper, we propose a methodology based on the MDD for solving the challenges in the IoT system developments. The methodology is composed of four phases with different levels of abstraction, viewpoint, granularity, and service-oriented. Furthermore, a set of MDD methods for the transformation of models using formal rules are proposed. We present a smart vehicle scenario in which the methodology and methods are implemented, allowing the generation of executable code as a component of a real-time system. In addition, an architecture for IoT systems composed of four layers is presented, which is based on the SOA approach. In this way, the methodology and the architecture allow the interoperability (from the perspective of models and software components) between heterogeneous devices to be guaranteed in multiple ways, establishing a bridge between the digital and physical world of the IoT domain .
Keywords: Thing; IoT; MDD; SOA; Transformation

Matthias Galster, Paris Avgeriou, Dan Tofan,
Constraints for the design of variability-intensive service-oriented reference architectures – An industrial case study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 428-441,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.09.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912002054)
Abstract: Context
Service-oriented architecture has become a widely used concept in software industry. However, we currently lack support for designing variability-intensive service-oriented systems. Such systems could be used in different environments, without the need to design them from scratch. To support the design of variability-intensive service-oriented systems, reference architectures that facilitate variability in instantiated service-oriented architectures can help.
Objective
The design of variability-intensive service-oriented reference architectures is subject to specific constraints. Architects need to know these constraints when designing such reference architectures. Our objective is to identify these constraints.
Method
An exploratory case study was performed in the context of local e-government in the Netherlands to study constraints from the perspective of (a) the users of a variability-intensive service-oriented system (municipalities that implement national laws), and (b) the implementing organizations (software vendors). We collected data through interviews with representatives from five organizations, document analyses and expert meetings.
Results
We identified ten constraints (e.g., organizational constraints, integration-related constraints) which affect the process of designing reference architectures for variability-intensive service-oriented systems. Also, we identified how stakeholders are affected by these constraints, and how constraints are specific to the case study domain.
Conclusions
Our results help design variability-intensive service-oriented reference architectures. Furthermore, our results can be used to define processes to design such reference architectures.
Keywords: Variability; Service-oriented architecture; SOA; Reference architectures; e-Government; Case study

Mutao Huang, David R. Maidment, Yong Tian,
Using SOA and RIAs for water data discovery and retrieval,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 26, Issue 11,
2011,
Pages 1309-1324,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2011.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815211001253)
Abstract: The main barriers to make full use of the wealth of available online data is that users are unable to rapidly locate relevant web services and retrieve appropriate data sets from different data repositories as well as efficiently reconcile integration between temporal and geospatial data. To address these issues, this paper focuses on the development of an online Water Data Discovery and Retrieval system (WDDRs) to enhance the capabilities of services discovery, data retrieval, and data visualization. The most significant features of WDDRs prototype are reflected in two aspects. On one hand, a water ontology incorporated with Universal Description, Discovery and Integration (UDDI) based enhanced services catalog offers facilities to alleviate semantic heterogeneity and associate semantic information with the web services discovery and data retrieval process. On the other hand, by embracing the capability within the context of Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and leveraging the latest protocols of several open web service standards and two popular RIAs (Rich Internet Applications) frameworks including the Microsoft Silverlight and the ESRI ArcGIS API for Silverlight, this system provides an interactive web portal which enables users to one-stop search, access, download and visualize different types of geospatial and observational data in a single environment. With the aim of supporting the study of integrated water environmental assessment, several investigations about water data discovery and retrieval were implemented to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the WDDRs.
Keywords: Ontology; Services discovery; Data retrieval; Data visualization; Web portal; Service oriented architectures; Rich internet applications

Sriram Krishnan, Karan Bhatia,
SOAs for scientific applications: Experiences and challenges,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 25, Issue 4,
2009,
Pages 466-473,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2008.09.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X08001386)
Abstract: Over the past several years, with the advent of the Open Grid Services Architecture (OGSA) [I. Foster, C. Kesselman, J. Nick, S. Tuecke, Grid Services for Distributed System Integration, Computer 35 (6) (2002)] and the Web Services Resource Framework (WSRF) [K. Czajkowski, et al., WS-resource framework. http://www-106.ibm.com/developerworks/library/ws-resource/ws-wsrf.pdf, 2004. [25]], Service-oriented Architectures (SOA) and Web service technologies have been embraced in the field of scientific and Grid computing. These new principles promise to help make scientific infrastructures simpler to use, more cost effective to implement, and easier to maintain. However, understanding how to leverage these developments to actually design and build a system remains more of an art than a science. In this paper, we present some positions learned through experience, that provide guidance in leveraging SOA technologies to build scientific infrastructures. In addition, we present the technical challenges that need to be addressed in building an SOA, and as a case study, we present the SOA that we have designed for the National Biomedical Computation Resource (NBCR) [The National Biomedical Computation Resource (NBCR). http://nbcr.net/] community. We discuss how we have addressed these technical challenges, and present the overall architecture, the individual software toolkits developed, the client interfaces, and the usage scenarios. We hope that our experiences prove to be useful in building similar infrastructures for other scientific applications.
Keywords: SOA; Grid; Cyberinfrastructures; eScience

Simon Tragatschnig, Srdjan Stevanetic, Uwe Zdun,
Supporting the evolution of event-driven service-oriented architectures using change patterns,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 100,
2018,
Pages 133-146,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2018.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584916303251)
Abstract: Context
The components of an event-driven service-oriented architecture (EDSOA) are composed in a highly decoupled way, facilitating high flexibility, scalability and concurrency in SOA systems. Evolving an EDSOA is challenging because the absence of explicit dependencies among constituent components makes understanding and analysing the overall system composition difficult. The evolution of EDSOAs typically happens by performing a series of primitive changes—which can be described formally as change primitives.
Objective
In this article, we present our change pattern based approach for managing the EDSOA evolution as a novel design method supporting EDSOA evolution. The change patterns operate on a higher abstraction level than change primitives.
Method
To evaluate our approach, we have compared both time and correctness of changes in a controlled experiment comparing the understanding and performing of changes in EDSOAs. The experiment has been conducted with 90 students of the Software Architecture course at the University of Vienna. We compare the efficiency of 3 sets of change operations for modifying a given system architecture to obtain a desired architecture: a minimal set of 3 change patterns, an extended set of 5 change patterns, and a minimal set of 4 change primitives.
Results
Our results show that change patterns based evolution requires significantly less time to capture a similar level of correctness as the evolution based on change primitives, presuming that a certain level of transformation complexity is required. Furthermore, we did not observe a significant difference in the correctness level nor in the time required to perform the changes using an extended pattern set compared to a minimal set of patterns.
Conclusions
We clearly show the feasibility of our approach by developing a design method and tool support using a model-driven tool chain consisting of 3 domain-specific languages and empirically evaluating the approach in a controlled experiment.

Ayed Alwadain, Erwin Fielt, Axel Korthaus, Michael Rosemann,
Empirical insights into the development of a service-oriented enterprise architecture,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 105,
2016,
Pages 39-52,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2015.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X15000828)
Abstract: Organisations use Enterprise Architecture (EA) to reduce organisational complexity, improve communication, align business and information technology (IT), and drive organisational change. Due to the dynamic nature of environmental and organisational factors, EA descriptions need to change over time to keep providing value for its stakeholders. Emerging business and IT trends, such as Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), may impact EA frameworks, methodologies, governance and tools. However, the phenomenon of EA evolution is still poorly understood. Using Archer's morphogenetic theory as a foundation, this research conceptualises three analytical phases of EA evolution in organisations, namely conditioning, interaction and elaboration. Based on a case study with a government agency, this paper provides new empirically and theoretically grounded insights into EA evolution, in particular in relation to the introduction of SOA, and describes relevant generative mechanisms affecting EA evolution. By doing so, it builds a foundation to further examine the impact of other IT trends such as mobile or cloud-based solutions on EA evolution. At a practical level, the research delivers a model that can be used to guide professionals to manage EA and continually evolve it.
Keywords: Enterprise architecture; EA; Service-oriented architecture; SOA; Critical realism; Morphogenetic theory

Boudjemaa Boudaa, Slimane Hammoudi, Leila Amel Mebarki, Abdelkader Bouguessa, Mohammed Amine Chikh,
An aspect-oriented model-driven approach for building adaptable context-aware service-based applications,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 136,
2017,
Pages 17-42,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.08.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642316301253)
Abstract: Context
Context-aware service-based applications development has been considered among the most studied research fields in the last decade. The objective was to accompany the rapid technology evolution of mobile computing devices by providing customized services able to interact with different contextual situations of a pervasive environment. For this purpose, many research works have advocated Model-Driven Development (MDD) for building context-aware service-based applications. However, the proposed approaches have presented specific methodologies without using development standards, which may be followed by developers. In addition, most of them have ignored the dynamic adaptation aspect at runtime that should characterize such kind of applications and no adaptation strategy was considered in their proposals.
Objective
The current paper aims to propose a generic model-driven approach for context-aware service-based applications engineering with a software development methodology including a reconfiguration loop to achieve the dynamic adaptation of these applications.
Method
This approach focuses on the combination of MDD and Aspect Oriented Modelling (AOM) to take advantage of their benefits. AOM encapsulates different context-awareness logics separately in aspect models called ContextAspect that can be easily woven into the service's business logic according to the changing context over time. The proposed development methodology includes four phases (modelling, composition, transformation and adaptation) which act in conformance with the MDA technology.
Results
The main results gained by using the present approach are the possibility to combine the MDA technology with the aspect-oriented paradigm in a generic development methodology for context-aware service-based applications, and the handling of their dynamic adaptation at execution time according to the changes in the context.
Conclusion
The development of context-aware applications is a complex, cumbersome, and time-consuming task. However, the experience reached by implementing the proposed methodology leads us to believe that the involvement of MDD and AOM is significantly beneficial to overcome some recognised shortcomings of several existing approaches and to make this task simpler, easier and faster.
Keywords: Context-aware service-based application; ContextAspect; Model-driven methodology; Aspect weaving; Dynamic adaptation

Erdal Tantik, Reiner Anderl,
Potentials of the Asset Administration Shell of Industrie 4.0 for Service-Oriented Business Models,
Procedia CIRP,
Volume 64,
2017,
Pages 363-368,
ISSN 2212-8271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2017.03.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827117301531)
Abstract: The ongoing integration of information and network technologies into the production process leads to cyber-physical system (CPS), specifically designed for industrial purposes. CPS provide a bi-directional information flow between products, machines and top-floor systems, thus enabling the instant adaptation of each process to external and internal conditions. Thereby they offer a high potential to obtain flexible manufacturing systems for custom tailored products at the efficiency level of mass production. Furthermore the functionality and adaptability of future production systems can be considerably improved, thus accommodating service-oriented business concepts. These additional services often include remote accessibility of CPS for monitoring, diagnosis and control over existing networks. With those services the machine-availability can be significantly increased. Further services include data analytics, Internet market places and additional options to meet the customer demands. For the realization of a consistent information flow, the interoperability between the different components has to be guaranteed. Therefore one important goal of current CPS-related research is to develop new standards and platforms for the network communication. To overcome this problem, the German high-tech strategy Industrie 4.0 aims at creating binding standards for the interfaces of all components. A major step towards the standardization was made by defining an administrative shell for each component, which is a framework for the middleware between the existing machines and external networks. This contribution offers an insight into the current developments of Industrie 4.0, focusing on the standardization of CPS, communication technologies and business models.
Keywords: Industrie 4.0; cyber-physical systems; services; automation

Adriana Giret, Emilia Garcia, Vicente Botti,
An engineering framework for Service-Oriented Intelligent Manufacturing Systems,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 81,
2016,
Pages 116-127,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2016.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361516300045)
Abstract: Nowadays fully integrated enterprises are being replaced by business networks in which each participant provides others with specialized services. As a result, the Service Oriented Manufacturing Systems emerges. These systems are complex and hard to engineer. The main source of complexity is the number of different technologies, standards, functions, protocols, and execution environments that must be integrated in order to realize them. This paper proposes a framework and associated engineering approach for assisting the system developers of Service Oriented Manufacturing Systems. The approach combines multi-agent system with Service Oriented Architectures for the development of intelligent automation control and execution of manufacturing systems.
Keywords: Service Oriented Intelligent Manufacturing Systems; Multi-agent system; Service Oriented Architectures; Software engineering method

Laiping Zhao, Yizhi Ren, Mingchu Li, Kouichi Sakurai,
Flexible service selection with user-specific QoS support in service-oriented architecture,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 35, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 962-973,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2011.03.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804511000671)
Abstract: Along with the development of the service-oriented architecture (SOA) and cloud computing, a large number of service providers have created an intense competitive world of business. Consequently, it is becoming increasingly complex to select a service provider for a user as a result of their various economic and social attributes. In this paper, we state the problem of how to find the appropriate services with satisfying the users' multiple QoS requirements. We consider the service's response time, trust degree and monetary cost. And inspired from the mode of Web search engine, such as Yahoo, Google, we propose an innovative service selection algorithm for SOA systems. The algorithm can recommend a number of suitable services based on the user's QoS requirements. Compared with the existing scheduling algorithms, our solution is much more flexible in supporting the multiple objectives and user personalization. We study the scalability of the algorithm with different numbers of jobs, service providers and QoS criteria. And we find that it can capture user's preferences value in less than six times of job submissions.
Keywords: Quality of service; Web service; Scheduling; Service-oriented architecture

Ching-Shen James Dong, Ananth Srinivasan,
Agent-enabled service-oriented decision support systems,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 55, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 364-373,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.05.047.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612001583)
Abstract: The design of Decision Support Systems have recently emphasized web enablement as the next step in design improvements for this class of applications. We argue that these approaches fail to address the key notion of adaptability in the support for decision makers. Instead of focusing exclusively on automation in decision making, we believe it is also necessary to pay attention to the interplay between decision makers and organizational processes. The service oriented view of organizations recognizes the need to accommodate the changing reality of organizational dynamics. For example, the service science approach focuses on interactions between service providers, their clients, and consumers as important interacting components of a service system. Current approaches to DSS design are constrained in terms of their ability to adapt to changes in user requirements and to provide support for the evolution of systems. This situation worsens when resources are distributed at different locations across organizations, decision making processes are required to be integrated at different points in time, and when collaboration is needed among decision makers. However, this typically characterizes the needs of collaborative decision making in networked organizations as exemplified by systems used for supply chain management. To address these problems we leverage the power of services for designing a framework that explicitly recognizes the need for design based on service delivery. We develop an agent-enabled service-oriented architecture to realize the proposed framework with service and agent paradigms. The architecture is refined and validated with an implementation in the supply chain context.
Keywords: Decision making processes; Service delivery; Decision support systems; Services; Software agents

Yang Cheng, Rikke Matthiesen, Sami Farooq, John Johansen, Haibo Hu, Lei Ma,
The evolution of investment patterns on advanced manufacturing technology (AMT) in manufacturing operations: A longitudinal analysis,
International Journal of Production Economics,
Volume 203,
2018,
Pages 239-253,
ISSN 0925-5273,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2018.06.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925527318302639)
Abstract: Taking a longitudinal perspective, this paper aims to investigate the evolution of advanced manufacturing technology (AMT) investment patterns in manufacturing companies. The data employed in this paper was collected in 2012 from production/technology/plant managers of Danish manufacturing companies. As a result, taxonomy of the evolution of AMT investment patterns is presented in this paper; contextual factors including size and industry type are also considered to investigate their association with AMT investment patterns over time; and the relationship between performance improvement and evolution of AMT investment patterns is finally elaborated. The major theoretical contributions of this paper are addressing the dynamic nature of AMT investment, examining how companies change their patterns of AMT investment over time, and developing further understandings on the evolution of AMT investment patterns per se, as well as its relationships with industry, company size, and performance improvement. Meanwhile, this paper suggests industrial managers to be aware of ever evolving technological developments and understand their own business goals before investing in AMTs, as different ways to evolve AMT investment patterns correlate with diverse performance gains. Moreover, the paper also recommends industrial managers to be patient in order to reap benefits of their AMT investments, as there is an inevitable time interval between AMT investment and its desired performance effects.
Keywords: AMT; Investment pattern; Evolution; Taxonomy; Longitudinal

Erlend Stav, Ståle Walderhaug, Marius Mikalsen, Sten Hanke, Ivan Benc,
Development and evaluation of SOA-based AAL services in real-life environments: A case study and lessons learned,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 82, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages e269-e293,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2011.03.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505611000736)
Abstract: Intro
The proper use of ICT services can support seniors in living independently longer. While such services are starting to emerge, current proprietary solutions are often expensive, covering only isolated parts of seniors’ needs, and lack support for sharing information between services and between users. For developers, the challenge is that it is complex and time consuming to develop high quality, interoperable services, and new techniques are needed to simplify the development and reduce the development costs. This paper provides the complete view of the experiences gained in the MPOWER project with respect to using model-driven development (MDD) techniques for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) system development in the Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) domain.
Method
To address this challenge, the approach of the European research project MPOWER (2006–2009) was to investigate and record the user needs, define a set of reusable software services based on these needs, and then implement pilot systems using these services. Further, a model-driven toolchain covering key development phases was developed to support software developers through this process. Evaluations were conducted both on the technical artefacts (methodology and tools), and on end user experience from using the pilot systems in trial sites.
Results
The outcome of the work on the user needs is a knowledge base recorded as a Unified Modeling Language (UML) model. This comprehensive model describes actors, use cases, and features derived from these. The model further includes the design of a set of software services, including full trace information back to the features and use cases motivating their design. Based on the model, the services were implemented for use in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) systems, and are publicly available as open source software. The services were successfully used in the realization of two pilot applications. There is therefore a direct and traceable link from the user needs of the elderly, through the service design knowledge base, to the service and pilot implementations. The evaluation of the SOA approach on the developers in the project revealed that SOA is useful with respect to job performance and quality. Furthermore, they think SOA is easy to use and support development of AAL applications. An important finding is that the developers clearly report that they intend to use SOA in the future, but not for all type of projects. With respect to using model-driven development in web services design and implementation, the developers reported that it was useful. However, it is important that the code generated from the models is correct if the full potential of MDD should be achieved. The pilots and their evaluation in the trial sites showed that the services of the platform are sufficient to create suitable systems for end users in the domain.
Conclusions
A SOA platform with a set of reusable domain services is a suitable foundation for more rapid development and tailoring of assisted living systems covering reoccurring needs among elderly users. It is feasible to realize a tool-chain for model-driven development of SOA applications in the AAL domain, and such a tool-chain can be accepted and found useful by software developers.
Keywords: Ambient Assisted Living; Service-Oriented Architecture; Information systems; Model-driven architecture; Model-driven development; Case study

Haluk Demirkan, Robert J. Kauffman, Jamshid A. Vayghan, Hans-Georg Fill, Dimitris Karagiannis, Paul P. Maglio,
Service-oriented technology and management: Perspectives on research and practice for the coming decade,
Electronic Commerce Research and Applications,
Volume 7, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 356-376,
ISSN 1567-4223,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2008.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567422308000288)
Abstract: Service-oriented technologies and management have gained attention in the past few years, promising a way to create the basis for agility so that companies can deliver new, more flexible business processes that harness the value of the services approach from a customer’s perspective. Service-oriented approaches are used for developing software applications and software-as-a-service that can be sourced as virtual hardware resources, including on-demand and utility computing. The driving forces come from the software engineering community and the e-business community. Service-oriented architecture promotes the loose coupling of software components so that interoperability across programming languages and platforms, and dynamic choreography of business processes can be achieved. Nevertheless, one of today’s most pervasive and perplexing challenges for senior managers deals with how and when to make a commitment to the new practices. The purpose of this article is to shed light on multiple issues associated with service-oriented technologies and management by examining several interrelated questions: why is it appropriate now to study the related business problems from the point of view of services research? What new conceptual frameworks and theoretical perspectives are appropriate for studying service-oriented technologies and management? What value will a service science and business process modeling offer to the firms that adopt them? And, how can these approaches be implemented so as to address the major challenges that organizations face with technology, information and strategy? We contribute new knowledge in this area by tying the economics and information technology strategy perspectives to the semantic and design science perspectives for a broader audience. Usually the more technical perspective is offered on a standalone basis, and confined to the systems space – even when the discussion is about business processes. This article also offers insights on these issues from the multiple perspectives of industry and academic thought leaders.
Keywords: Business processes; Economic analysis; IT management; Research directions; Service-oriented architecture; Service paradigm; Service-oriented technology and management; Thought leadership

R.I. Mackie,
Application of service oriented architecture to finite element analysis,
Advances in Engineering Software,
Volume 52,
2012,
Pages 72-80,
ISSN 0965-9978,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advengsoft.2012.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965997812000968)
Abstract: This paper examines the application of service oriented architecture (SOA) in finite element analysis. SOA is a technology for designing and developing interoperable services. These services can reside on the same computer or, more commonly, on distributed computers. The paper demonstrates how SOA can be used within the context of scientific computing. The implementation and application of SOA to equation solvers and finite element analysis is described. There are advantages in terms of software engineering, as it facilitates the separation of areas of complexity. SOA can be used on standalone computers, intranets and on the internet. The data transfer costs are examined. It is shown that SOA principles can be used to design applets that make use of finite element analysis and a simple example of this is described.
Keywords: Component-oriented; Object-oriented; Distributed computing; Service oriented architecture; Finite elements; Microsoft.NET

Jacopo Soldani, Damian Andrew Tamburri, Willem-Jan Van Den Heuvel,
The pains and gains of microservices: A Systematic grey literature review,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 146,
2018,
Pages 215-232,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2018.09.082.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121218302139)
Abstract: The design, development, and operation of microservices are picking up more and more momentum in the IT industry. At the same time, academic work on the topic is at an early stage, and still on the way to distilling the actual “Pains & Gains” of microservices as an architectural style. Having witnessed this gap, we set forth to systematically analyze the industrial grey literature on microservices, to identify the technical/operational pains and gains of the microservice-based architectural style. We conclude by discussing research directions stemming out from our analysis.
Keywords: Microservices; Microservices design; Microservices development; Microservices operation; Systematic grey literature review; Systematic literature review

Miguel Contreras, Leonid Sheremetov,
Industrial application integration using the unification approach to agent-enabled semantic SOA,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 24, Issue 5,
2008,
Pages 680-695,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2007.09.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736584507001184)
Abstract: Within the enterprise, information infrastructure as the mean to bring together different software applications is the key component to enable cooperation and information and knowledge exchange in an open-distributed environment. The paper addresses the issues of industrial application integration in business processes using agent-enabled service-oriented architectures (SOA). In this paper, we show that agent-enabled SOA can play an important role for service integration. Our framework combines Web services (WS) and intelligent agent technologies orchestrated by a business process management system. This framework looks for unification of agent and WS service models, is grounded in a semantic SOA of an agent platform and is supported by the Component Agent Platform Over .NET Framework agent platform tools. We describe the architecture and illustrate the approach by an industrial application scenario from petroleum wells’ drilling.
Keywords: Application integration; Service-oriented architecture; Intelligent agents; Agent platform; Oil well drilling

José M. Conejero, Roberto Rodríguez-Echeverría, Juan Hernández, Pedro J. Clemente, Carmen Ortiz-Caraballo, Elena Jurado, Fernando Sánchez-Figueroa,
Early evaluation of technical debt impact on maintainability,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 142,
2018,
Pages 92-114,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2018.04.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121218300736)
Abstract: It is widely claimed that Technical Debt is related to quality problems being often produced by poor processes, lack of verification or basic incompetence. Several techniques have been proposed to detect Technical Debt in source code, as identification of modularity violations, code smells or grime buildups. These approaches have been used to empirically demonstrate the relation among Technical Debt indicators and quality harms. However, these works are mainly focused on programming level, when the system has already been implemented. There may also be sources of Technical Debt in non-code artifacts, e.g. requirements, and its identification may provide important information to move refactoring efforts to previous stages and reduce future Technical Debt interest. This paper presents an empirical study to evaluate whether modularity anomalies at requirements level are directly related to maintainability attributes affecting systems quality and increasing, thus, system's interest. The study relies on a framework that allows the identification of modularity anomalies and its quantification by using modularity metrics. Maintainability metrics are also used to assess dynamic maintainability properties. The results obtained by both sets of metrics are pairwise compared to check whether the more modularity anomalies the system presents, the less stable and more difficult to maintain it is.
Keywords: Technical Debt indicator; Requirements; Modularity anomalies; Maintainability; Empirical evaluation

Marisol García-Valls, Patricia Uriol-Resuela, Felipe Ibáñez-Vázquez, Pablo Basanta-Val,
Low complexity reconfiguration for real-time data-intensive service-oriented applications,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 37,
2014,
Pages 191-200,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2013.10.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X13002379)
Abstract: Next generation distributed real-time systems will be complex high-performance environments containing applications with a flexible structure, integrating a large number of nodes of heterogeneous nature characterized by multiple and decoupled software units scattered all over the distributed environment; they are expected to offer data-intensive capabilities through merging the processing power of large numbers of nodes. These systems will have increased dynamic behavior by suffering frequent reconfigurations or state transitions resulting, among others, from the changing nature of the processed data. Handling the dynamics of these systems in real-time is a complex problem that requires to impose some bounds to the structure of the system to really achieve timely response not only during normal operation but also in the event of reconfigurations. In this paper, we present an approach to achieve real-time reconfiguration in distributed real-time service-based systems modeled as graphs. A reconfiguration requires to search for a new schedulable/valid solution or state from a complete system graph that contains all tentative solutions; each of these solutions will have undergo a schedulability analysis to determine if it is a valid solution; if the system graph is too complex, the overall time required for the schedulability check can be exponential with respect to the size of services and service implementations; this may lead to an unbounded reconfiguration time. In this paper, we present an approach to reduce the complexity of the system graphs so that a summarizing one that contains valid solutions is analyzed and not the complete system graph. We have implemented this mechanism inside the iLAND service reconfiguration and composition components to validate the proposed concepts and ideas; the reduction of the space of solutions with the presented approach is very high, which dramatically decreases the computation time of the reconfiguration process.
Keywords: Reconfiguration; Real-time; SOA; Distributed systems; Complexity reduction

David Ameller, Xavier Burgués, Dolors Costal, Carles Farré, Xavier Franch,
Non-functional requirements in model-driven development of service-oriented architectures,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 168,
2018,
Pages 18-37,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2018.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642318303034)
Abstract: Any software development process needs to consider non-functional requirements (NFR) in order to deliver a system that complies with its stakeholders' expectations. In a previous mapping study about model-driven development (MDD) for service-oriented architectures (SOA) we found a limited number of approaches managing NFR. The present work aims at analyzing in detail the state of the art in the management of NFR in MDD processes which produce SOA. We have conducted a systematic literature review following a rigorous protocol. We have taken as initial point the mapping study mentioned above and have used the subset of the 31 papers from this study (clustered into 15 approaches) that referred to NFR. We have analyzed them qualitatively in order to answer six research questions. We have built a Software Engineering theory to formalize this analysis. As result we highlight that most of approaches focus exclusively on security and reliability and we observe that NFR are expressed mainly as annotations of functional models represented in UML. From our perspective, existing research on the topic of this study is still scarce and without any evidence of transferability to industry. This situation suggests the need for further investigation efforts in order to produce validated MDD methods capable of generating SOA satisfying NFR stated by stakeholders.
Keywords: Model-driven development; Non-functional requirements; Quality requirement; Service-oriented architecture; Systematic literature review

Jameela Al-Jaroodi, Nader Mohamed,
Service-oriented middleware: A survey,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 35, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 211-220,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2011.07.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804511001512)
Abstract: Service-oriented computing aims to make services available and easily accessible through standardized models and protocols without having to worry about the underlying infrastructures, development models or implementation details. This helps achieve interoperability and loose coupling among distributed application components and also among user processes. In addition, this model offers users an on-demand usage model where they only use the services needed for the time needed, which relieves them from having to build and maintain a complete system in house. However, the design and implementation of robust and efficient service-oriented applications are still as complex and demanding as any other type of distributed application. Thus middleware can play an important role in facilitating the design, development and implementation of service-oriented systems. Furthermore, middleware approaches will provision non-functional requirements like performance, scalability, reliability, flexibility and quality of service (QoS) assurance. A lot of work has been done in this area and in this paper we survey some of this work in service-oriented middleware (SOM). As we study the different projects we develop a list of the main requirements that SOM should support. We also discuss the main objectives and characteristics of the surveyed approaches, and then we highlight the challenges to be addressed when designing and developing SOM solutions that satisfy the requirements of different application domains.
Keywords: Service-oriented middleware; Service-oriented computing; Service provider; Middleware; Interoperability

Cesare Bartolini, Antonia Bertolino, Sebastian Elbaum, Eda Marchetti,
Bringing white-box testing to Service Oriented Architectures through a Service Oriented Approach,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 84, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 655-668,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2010.10.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016412121000289X)
Abstract: The attractive feature of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is that pieces of software conceived and developed by independent organizations can be dynamically composed to provide richer functionality. The same reasons that enable flexible compositions, however, also prevent the application of some traditional testing approaches, making SOA validation challenging and costly. Web services usually expose just an interface, enough to invoke them and develop some general (black-box) tests, but insufficient for a tester to develop an adequate understanding of the integration quality between the application and the independent web services. To address this lack we propose an approach that makes web services more transparent to testers through the addition of an intermediary service that provides coverage information. The approach, named Service Oriented Coverage Testing (SOCT), provides testers with feedback about how much a service is exercised by their tests without revealing the service internals. In SOCT, testing feedback is offered itself as a service, thus preserving SOA founding principles of loose coupling and implementation neutrality. In this paper we motivate and define the SOCT approach, and implement an instance of it. We also perform a study to asses SOCT feasibility and provide a preliminary evaluation of its viability and value.
Keywords: White-box testing; Coverage adequacy criteria; Testing web services; Service-Oriented Architecture

James Bean,
Chapter 2 - Core SOA Principles,
Editor(s): James Bean,
In The MK/OMG Press,
SOA and Web Services Interface Design,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2010,
Pages 25-41,
ISBN 9780123748911,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374891-1.00002-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123748911000022)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
Service-oriented architecture (SOA) principles provide critical guidance for the design and development of services and the service interface. These core principles include loose coupling, interoperability, reusability, discoverability, and governance. Loose coupling helps to mitigate the impact of service changes to consumers. Interoperability helps to ensure that consumers of almost any technology can use services. Reusability optimizes the design and development process and helps to avoid new development costs. Discoverability supports reusability and requires that services be published in a manner that allows them to be easily found for later reuse. An SOA implementation that is guided by these principles can exploit a number of advantages and benefits. Examples of these advantages can include mitigation of impact from change, cost avoidance for new development as the result of reuse, and an ability to exploit the prior investment in legacy technology assets. SOA principles also serve as a foundation for SOA governance. SOA governance should consider three different lifecycle states or views: design-time, bind-time, and run-time. Design-time governance can include industry guidance as well as internal principles, patterns, and best practices. Bind-time governance is largely mechanical and helps to reserve the separation of environment boundaries of development, test, and production. Runtime governance ensures that appropriate actions are taken.

W.J. Napier, J.J. Ensberg, J.H. Seinfeld,
Insight into the numerical challenges of implementing 2-dimensional SOA models in atmospheric chemical transport models,
Atmospheric Environment,
Volume 96,
2014,
Pages 331-344,
ISSN 1352-2310,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2014.07.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231014005780)
Abstract: The new generation of secondary organic aerosol (SOA) models that represent gas- and particle-phase chemistry and thermodynamic partitioning using discrete two-dimensional grids (e.g. SOM, 2D-VBS) cannot be efficiently implemented into three-dimensional atmospheric chemical transport models (CTMs) due to the large number of bins (tracers) required. In this study, we introduce a novel mathematical framework, termed the Oxidation State/Volatility Moment Method, that is designed to address these computational burdens so as to allow the new generation of SOA models to be implemented into CTMs. This is accomplished by mapping the two-dimensional grids onto probability distributions that conserve carbon and oxygen mass. Assessment of the Moment Method strengths (speed, carbon and oxygen conservation) and weaknesses (numerical drift) provide valuable insight that can guide future development of SOA modules for atmospheric CTMs.
Keywords: Secondary organic aerosol; 2-Dimensional SOA model; Chemical transport model; Probability distribution; Computational efficiency

Guillermo Rodríguez, J. Andrés Díaz-Pace, Álvaro Soria,
A case-based reasoning approach to reuse quality-driven designs in service-oriented architectures,
Information Systems,
Volume 77,
2018,
Pages 167-189,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2018.06.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915300181)
Abstract: Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) has become a dominant approach for developing distributed enterprise-wide applications. Most organizations capitalize on SOA by discovering and reusing services already accessible over the Internet. In addition to functional requirements, the implementation of a SOA design must consider quality-attribute properties (e.g., performance, interoperability or security, among others), which require developers to explore and assess candidate solutions fulfilling the same functional requirements. This exploration is usually driven by architectural knowledge and SOA principles, but it can be a time-consuming and error-prone process, even for expert developers. To deal with this issue, we present a case-based reasoning approach called AWESOME to assist developers in exploring different development alternatives, by modeling quality-attribute aspects and SOA design patterns as cases. Our approach has been evaluated with four case-studies, and the results have shown that the solutions generated by AWESOME are judged as satisfactory by a number of SOA experts.
Keywords: Case-based reasoning; Tool support; Object-oriented design; Quality attributes; Service-oriented architecture; Web Services

Nikolajs Bumanis, Gatis Vitols, Ingus Smits, Jekaterina Smirnova, Irina Arhipova, Vladimirs Salajevs,
Service Oriented Solution for Managing Smartlets,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 43,
2015,
Pages 33-40,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050914015749)
Abstract: In the past years, the number of smartphones used in the world is rapidly increasing. As mobile technologies become more advanced, especially with expansion of smartphones and tablet pc's market, mobile applications and smart cards became one of the current business development trends. Following this trend, from the business process execution standpoint, different industry representatives are willing to develop mobile, web and smartcard applications, which are able to perform basic functions of e-commerce. Therefore there is an existing need for effective solution, which would allow organizations to integrate and combine services and products from different providers in the smartlet applications for easy and comfortable usage by clients. In this article smartlet concept and roles for managing smartlets are introduced. Service oriented solution for smartlet application development and management is proposed. With developed solution smartlet mobile application “Jelgava city guide” is developed and presented.
Keywords: Mobile application development; Smartcard; Smartlet.

Marco Gribaudo, Mauro Iacono, Daniele Manini,
Performance Evaluation of Replication Policies in Microservice Based Architectures,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 337,
2018,
Pages 45-65,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2018.03.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066118300379)
Abstract: Nowadays applications tend to be executed on distributed environments provisioned using on-demand infrastructures. The use of techniques such as application containers simplifies the orchestration of complex systems. In this context, microservices based architectures offer a promising solution for what concerns software development and scalability. In this paper, we propose an approach to study the automatic scalability of microservices architectures deployed in public and private clouds. A Fluid Petri Net model describes the characterise of the platform, and a real trace drives the approach to consider a realistic scenario. Our focus is on evaluating the performances, costs and energy consumptions from both the service provider and infrastructure provider point of view.
Keywords: Performance evaluation; microservices

Mariana Dorigatti, Armando Guarnaschelli, Omar Chiotti, Hector E. Salomone,
A service-oriented framework for agent-based simulations of collaborative supply chains,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 83,
2016,
Pages 92-107,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2016.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361516301932)
Abstract: Current collaborative practices of supply chain management are limited to some known configurations where a dominant member sets the pace for the collaboration extent. Extending collaborative models to supply chains without a dominant member requires defining a fair assessment of costs and benefits and how they are distributed among members. To understand collaborative models and their mechanisms, simulation-based approaches are recommended as they can afford the complexity of real scenarios. However, building ad-hoc simulation models for studying complex supply chain interactions can be prohibitive in terms of both cost and time. Therefore, the availability of simulation frameworks, to be used easily by business managers and facilitating the development of those models, has a strong incentive in the quest of current business efforts to increase their supply chain performance. The objective of this work is to present a systematic and reusable serviceoriented framework for agent based simulation to support the analysis of collaborative interactions in supply chains. Results of a requirement analysis performed to this aim are described, and the fulfillment of identified requirements by the proposed framework, and capabilities thereof, are discussed.
Keywords: Agent-based simulation; Collaborative supply chains; Service oriented framework

Carlos Granell, Laura Díaz, Michael Gould,
Service-oriented applications for environmental models: Reusable geospatial services,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 25, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 182-198,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2009.08.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815209002047)
Abstract: Environmental modelling often requires a long iterative process of sourcing, reformatting, analyzing, and introducing various types of data into the model. Much of the data to be analyzed are geospatial data—digital terrain models (DTM), river basin boundaries, snow cover from satellite imagery, etc.—and so the modelling workflow typically involves the use of multiple desktop GIS and remote sensing software packages, with limited compatibility among them. Recent advances in service-oriented architectures (SOA) are allowing users to migrate from dedicated desktop solutions to on-line, loosely coupled, and standards-based services which accept source data, process them, and pass results as basic parameters to other intermediate services and/or then to the main model, which also may be made available on-line. This contribution presents a service-oriented application that addresses the issues of data accessibility and service interoperability for environmental models. Key model capabilities are implemented as geospatial services, which are combined to form complex services, and may be reused in other similar contexts. This work was carried out under the auspices of the AWARE project funded by the European programme Global Monitoring for Environment and Security (GMES). We show results of the service-oriented application applied to alpine runoff models, including the use of geospatial services facilitating discovery, access, processing and visualization of geospatial data in a distributed manner.
Keywords: Geospatial processing services; Application and service integration; Service reuse; Environmental models; Service-oriented architecture, SOA; Spatial data infrastructure, SDI

Stephen Lane, Ita Richardson,
Process models for service-based applications: A systematic literature review,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 53, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 424-439,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910002211)
Abstract: Context
Service-Oriented Computing (SOC) is a promising computing paradigm which facilitates the development of adaptive and loosely coupled service-based applications (SBAs). Many of the technical challenges pertaining to the development of SBAs have been addressed, however, there are still outstanding questions relating to the processes required to develop them.
Objective
The objective of this study is to systematically identify process models for developing service-based applications (SBAs) and review the processes within them. This will provide a useful starting point for any further research in the area. A secondary objective of the study is to identify process models which facilitate the adaptation of SBAs.
Method
In order to achieve this objective a systematic literature review (SLR) of the existing software engineering literature is conducted.
Results
During this research 722 studies were identified using a predefined search strategy, this number was narrowed down to 57 studies based on a set of strict inclusion and exclusion criteria. The results are reported both quantitatively in the form of a mapping study, as well as qualitatively in the form of a narrative summary of the key processes identified.
Conclusion
There are many process models reported for the development of SBAs varying in detail and maturity, this review has identified and categorised the processes within those process models. The review has also identified and evaluated process models which facilitate the adaptation of SBAs.
Keywords: SOA; Service-based application; Software process; Systematic literature review

Guoquan Wu, Jun Wei, Chunyang Ye, Hua Zhong, Tao Huang, Hong He,
Specification and monitoring of data-centric temporal properties for service-based systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 85, Issue 12,
2012,
Pages 2738-2754,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2012.05.075.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121212001604)
Abstract: Service-based systems operate in a very dynamic environment. To guarantee functional and non-functional objective at runtime, an adaptation mechanism is usually expected to monitor software changes, make appropriate decisions, and act accordingly. However, existing runtime monitoring solutions consider only the constraints on the sequence of messages exchanged between partner services and ignore the actual data contents inside the messages. As a result, it is difficult to monitor some dynamic properties such as how message data of interest is processed between different participants. To address this issue, we propose an efficient, non-intrusive online monitoring approach to dynamically analyze data-centric properties for service-oriented applications involving multiple participants. By introducing Par-BCL – a Parametric Behavior Constraint Language for Web services – to define monitoring parameters, various data-centric temporal behavior properties for Web services can be specified and monitored. This approach broadens the monitored patterns to include not only message exchange orders, but also data contents bound to the parameters. To reduce runtime overhead, we statically analyze the monitored properties and combine two different indexing mechanisms to optimize monitoring. The experiments show that our solution is efficient and promising.
Keywords: Runtime monitoring; Web services composition; Temporal property

Xiao Wei, Daniel Dajun Zeng, Xiangfeng Luo,
Concept evolution analysis based on the Dissipative Structure of Concept Semantic Space,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 81,
2018,
Pages 384-394,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.10.042.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17308476)
Abstract: In the domain of text semantic processing, concept semantic evolution is a common phenomenon involved in the lasting process of a concept’s formation and development at different stages, which leads concept evolution analysis to be difficult in identifying concept evolution states. To solve the problem, the paper proposes a method of concept evolution analysis based on the Dissipative Structure of Concept Semantic Space (CSS). First, a CSS is constructed as surroundings where a concept forms and its semantic evolves. Second, an analogy is made with thermodynamics and the theory of Dissipative Structure is applied to CSS, which models the changing process of CSS from the disordered to the ordered. Third, the evolution of concept is analyzed based on the Dissipative Structure of CSS. Finally, the proposed method is verified by an application and experiments.
Keywords: Concept Semantic Space; Dissipative Structure; Concept evolution; Text semantic; Cyber–physical system

Chander Velu,
A Systems Perspective on Business Model Evolution: The Case of an Agricultural Information Service Provider in India,
Long Range Planning,
Volume 50, Issue 5,
2017,
Pages 603-620,
ISSN 0024-6301,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2016.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024630116302102)
Abstract: This paper explores how the organizational capabilities of a firm enable business model evolution by examining the development of a new firm that provides mobile-phone-based information services for farmers in India. We argue that these organizational capabilities are part of the dynamic capabilities of the firm. We use a longitudinal and in-depth single case study to extend our understanding of the mechanism for business model evolution in new firms. The study shows three themes emerging from the data analysis of the case study by drawing on the literatures on systems thinking, dynamic capabilities and business model evolution. The three themes are balanced redundancy, requisite variety and cognitive discretion, which enable a firm to achieve congruence between the components of the business model in order to deliver the customer value proposition. We explain how these three micro-foundations of dynamic capabilities enable a firm to evolve its business model. We contribute to the business model and dynamic capabilities literature by proposing a systems perspective on business models and their evolution.

Lifeng Mu, C.K. Kwong,
A multi-objective optimization model of component selection in enterprise information system integration,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 115,
2018,
Pages 278-289,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2017.11.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835217305466)
Abstract: Integrating legacy IT assets and new commercial software components together into a flexible IT architecture is one of open challenges facing modern enterprises today. Most of previous studies focused on using re-engineering to improve the flexibility of IT architectures, rather than employing optimization theory in architecture design problem, especially the problem of component selection and re-allocation in IT architecture. Moreover, a scant amount of literature is available on considering the architectural flexibility and integration cost simultaneously. To fill in this gap, based on a modified quantitative method of measuring the relationship between couplings and cohesions in architecture, we devise a nonlinear multi-objective binary integer programming to select components from legacy candidates and commercial candidates, and to group them into services under the service-oriented architecture (SOA) environment. The customized SPEA2 algorithm is further used to solve the problem, and some managerial insights are provided based on experiments and sensitivity analysis with the model.
Keywords: OR in software engineering; Flexible IT architecture; Enterprise information technologies; Component selection; Multiple objective programming

Stjepan Sučić, Tomislav Dragičević, Tomislav Capuder, Marko Delimar,
Economic dispatch of virtual power plants in an event-driven service-oriented framework using standards-based communications,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 81, Issue 12,
2011,
Pages 2108-2119,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2011.08.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779611001957)
Abstract: The accelerated evolution of power systems and the associated new trends, such as Smart Grids, has stimulated the development of various approaches in handling the problems of increased electricity demands, power market (de)regulation and power systems reliability. One of the new key concepts is the virtual power plant (VPP), which represents a controllable portfolio of distributed energy resources (DERs). Such a portfolio can be operated in various modes, each with a set of unique control requirements. An open framework providing robust solution for large scale DERs integration and control is one of the key issues in Smart Grid development. This paper proposes an approach for solving this problem by utilizing standards-based power system communications, application modeling based on event-driven information services and algorithms for optimized VPP control. The applicability of the proposed technical solution is demonstrated and analyzed via simulation of the developed economic dispatch algorithm.
Keywords: Economic dispatch; Event-driven service-oriented framework; IEC 61850; Virtual power plants; Ancillary services

Franco Cicirelli, Angelo Furfaro, Libero Nigro,
A service-based architecture for dynamically reconfigurable workflows,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 83, Issue 7,
2010,
Pages 1148-1164,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2010.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016412121000004X)
Abstract: In the last few years, business process management systems have been employed for handling information systems of ever increasing complexity. As a consequence, the adoption of modelling languages enabling smooth and seamless transitions among the various phases of the process lifecycle, the ability of exploiting coordination schema over distributed execution contexts and the support for dynamic evolution and reconfiguration have become software engineering issues of great importance. This paper proposes the use of PN-Engine, a decentralized Petri nets execution engine, as a business process enactment engine. PN-Engine, which is based on the Jini service architecture, supports the decentralized execution of process models specified as Petri nets (PNs) enhanced with modular constructs and offers suitable mechanisms for dealing with the aforementioned design issues. PN-Engine allows to deploy and enact a new version of an existing process model without requiring the stopping/removal of older instances that are still running. The paper presents a novel approach enabling a decentralized migration procedure where concurrent portions of older instances migrate asynchronously to the new process model. Advantages of the proposed approach are demonstrated by means of an example concerning a workflow for a wine-production process.
Keywords: Service oriented computing; Petri nets; Business process modelling; Workflow systems; Dynamic reconfiguration

Chang-ai Sun, Rowan Rossing, Marco Sinnema, Pavel Bulanov, Marco Aiello,
Modeling and managing the variability of Web service-based systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 83, Issue 3,
2010,
Pages 502-516,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2009.10.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121209002611)
Abstract: Web service-based systems are built orchestrating loosely coupled, standardized, and internetworked programs. If on the one hand, Web services address the interoperability issues of modern information systems, on the other hand, they enable the development of software systems on the basis of reuse, greatly limiting the necessity for reimplementation. Techniques and methodologies to gain the maximum from this emerging computing paradigm are in great need. In particular, a way to explicitly model and manage variability would greatly facilitate the creation and customization of Web service-based systems. By variability we mean the ability of a software system to be extended, changed, customized or configured for use in a specific context. We present a framework and related tool suite for modeling and managing the variability of Web service-based systems for design and run-time, respectively. It is an extension of the COVAMOF framework for the variability management of software product families, which was developed at the University of Groningen. Among the novelties and advantages of the approach are the full modeling of variability via UML diagrams, the run-time support, and the low involvement of the user. All of which leads to a great deal of automation in the management of all kinds of variability.
Keywords: Service engineering; Variability modeling; Variability management; Web services

Tristan Glatard, Johan Montagnat, David Emsellem, Diane Lingrand,
A Service-Oriented Architecture enabling dynamic service grouping for optimizing distributed workflow execution,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 24, Issue 7,
2008,
Pages 720-730,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2008.02.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X08000149)
Abstract: In this paper, we describe a Service-Oriented Architecture allowing the optimization of the execution of service workflows. We discuss the advantages of the service-oriented approach with regard to the enactment of scientific applications on a grid infrastructure. Based on the development of a generic Web-Services wrapper, we show how the flexibility of our architecture enables dynamic service grouping for optimizing the application execution time. We demonstrate performance results on a real medical imaging application. On a production grid infrastructure, the optimization proposed introduces a significant speed-up (from 1.2 to 2.9) when compared to a traditional execution.
Keywords: Grid workflows; Service-Oriented Architecture; Legacy code wrapper; Service grouping

Fang Qiu, Feng Ni, Bryan Chastain, Haiting Huang, Peisheng Zhao, Weiguo Han, Liping Di,
GWASS: GRASS web application software system based on the GeoBrain web service,
Computers & Geosciences,
Volume 47,
2012,
Pages 143-150,
ISSN 0098-3004,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2012.01.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098300412000350)
Abstract: GRASS is a well-known geographic information system developed more than 30 years ago. As one of the earliest GIS systems, GRASS has currently survived mainly as free, open-source desktop GIS software, with users primarily limited to the research community or among programmers who use it to create customized functions. To allow average GIS end users to continue taking advantage of this widely-used software, we developed a GRASS Web Application Software System (GWASS), a distributed, web-based, multi-tiered Geospatial Information System (GIS) built on top of the GeoBrain web service, a project sponsored by NASA using the latest service oriented architecture (SOA). This SOA enabled system offers an effective and practical alternative to current commercial desktop GIS solutions. With GWASS, all geospatial processing and analyses are conducted by the server, so users are not required to install any software at the client side, which reduces the cost of access for users. The only resource needed to use GWASS is an access to the Internet, and anyone who knows how to use a web browser can operate the system. The SOA framework is revitalizing the GRASS as a new means to bring powerful geospatial analysis and resources to more users with concurrent access.
Keywords: GIS; GRASS; SOA; Web service

Omid Fatahi Valilai, Mahmoud Houshmand,
A collaborative and integrated platform to support distributed manufacturing system using a service-oriented approach based on cloud computing paradigm,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 29, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 110-127,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2012.07.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736584512000932)
Abstract: Today's manufacturing enterprises struggle to adopt cost-effective manufacturing systems. Overview of the recent manufacturing enterprises shows that successful global manufacturing enterprises have distributed their manufacturing capabilities over the globe. The successes of global manufacturing enterprises depend upon the entire worldwide integration of their product development processes and manufacturing operations that are distributed over the globe. Distributed manufacturing agents' collaboration and manufacturing data integrity play a major role in global manufacturing enterprises' success. There are number of works, conducted to enable the distributed manufacturing agents to collaborate with each other. To achieve the manufacturing data integrity through manufacturing processes, numbers of solutions have been proposed which one of the successful solutions is to use ISO 10303 (STEP) standard. However, adopting this standard one can recognize antonym effects of integration and collaboration approaches that weaken both integration and collaboration capabilities of manufacturing agents. In our latest work, we had developed an integrated and collaborative manufacturing platform named LAYMOD. Albeit the platform in question was through enough to be applied in various collaborative and integrated CAx systems, its embedded structure hampers its application for collaboration in distributed manufacturing systems. To achieve an integrated and collaborative platform for distributed manufacturing agents, this paper proposes a service-oriented approach. This approach is originated from cloud computing paradigm known as one of the technologies which enables a major transformation in manufacturing industry. Also, to maintain the product data integration based on the STEP standard, a new service-oriented approach is proposed. This approach is in parallel to the new capability of the STEP standard for supporting XML data structures. The result is a new platform named XMLAYMOD. XMLAYMOD is able to support distributed manufacturing collaboration and data integration based on the STEP standard. The different aspects of this platform to fulfill the requirements of distributed collaboration and also to overcome the lacks of the STEP standard are discussed through a brief case study.
Keywords: STEP standard; Modularity; XML; Distributed product development; Cloud computing; Service-oriented manufacturing; Collaborative product development

Frank Cohen,
Chapter 8 - Getting SOA-Ready,
Editor(s): Frank Cohen,
In The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems,
FastSOA,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2007,
Pages 201-239,
ISBN 9780123695130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012369513-0/50009-4.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123695130500094)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter explores how business or organization benefits from putting data, metadata, and policies to work, and provides a methodology and checklist to make certain that organization is service-oriented architecture (SOA) ready. This chapter reveals that extensible markup language (XML) is very important to the information technology industry, because it gives software developers, architects, and operations managers an easy and efficient way to model data in a way that expresses metadata—data about the data. Before XML, most distributed systems treated data and services separately. With XML, service interfaces become more easily understandable, because the interface definition is self-describing XML. And the data in the message that moves through the service interface expresses meaning semantically in the message. Data and services merge with XML. Consequently, the IT industry is using SOA techniques to turn the newly available XML data into business value through reusable components that implement business policies and use composite data service software.

Iain D. Stalker, Eric S. Fraga, Aidong Yang, Nikolay D. Mehandjiev,
Service-Oriented CAPE: A new direction for software applications,
Editor(s): Bertrand Braunschweig, Xavier Joulia,
Computer Aided Chemical Engineering,
Elsevier,
Volume 25,
2008,
Pages 611-616,
ISSN 1570-7946,
ISBN 9780444532275,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1570-7946(08)80107-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570794608801071)
Abstract: We introduce our vision of Service Oriented Computer-Aided Process Engineering. We consider this an exciting new direction for software applications, which promises increased flexibility and provides a way to leverage the resources of the Grid and the potential of current developments in the Web. We suggest that it is a natural, next step.
Keywords: Service Orientation; CAPE-OPEN; Architecture; Ontology Agents

Weiming Shen, Qi Hao, Shuying Wang, Yinsheng Li, Hamada Ghenniwa,
An agent-based service-oriented integration architecture for collaborative intelligent manufacturing,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 23, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 315-325,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2006.02.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736584506000226)
Abstract: The rapidly changing needs and opportunities of today's global market require unprecedented levels of interoperability to integrate diverse information systems to share knowledge and collaborate among organizations. The combination of Web services and software agents provides a promising computing paradigm for efficient service selection and integration of inter-organizational business processes. This paper proposes an agent-based service-oriented integration architecture to leverage manufacturing scheduling services on a network of virtual enterprises. A unique property of this approach is that the scheduling process of an order is orchestrated on the Internet through the negotiation among agent-based Web services. A software prototype system has been implemented for inter-enterprise manufacturing resource sharing. It demonstrates how the proposed service-oriented integration architecture can be used to establish a collaborative environment that provides dynamic resource scheduling services.
Keywords: Enterprise collaboration; Virtual enterprise; Software agents; Web services; Service-oriented architecture

Hai Jin, Yaqin Luo, Li Qi, Jie Dai, Song Wu,
Dependency-aware maintenance for highly available service-oriented grid,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 83, Issue 10,
2010,
Pages 1983-1994,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2010.05.068.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121210001275)
Abstract: When the scale of computational system grow from a single machine to a Grid with potentially thousands of heterogeneous nodes, the interdependencies among the resources and software components make management and maintenance activities much more complicated. One of the most important challenges to overcome is how to balance maintenance of the system and the global system availability. In this paper, a novel mechanism is proposed, the Cobweb Guardian, which provides solutions not only to reduce the effects of maintenance but to remove the effects of dependencies on system availability due to deployment dependencies, invocation dependencies, and environment dependencies. By using the Cobweb Guardian, Grid administrators can execute the maintenance tasks safely at runtime whilst ensuring high system availability. The results of our evaluations show that our proposed dependency-aware maintenance mechanism can significantly increase the throughput and the availability of the whole system at runtime.
Keywords: Dynamic maintenance; Grid services; Service dependency; Availability

Marta Zorrilla, Diego García-Saiz,
A service oriented architecture to provide data mining services for non-expert data miners,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 55, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 399-411,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.05.045.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016792361200156X)
Abstract: In today's competitive market, companies need to use discovery knowledge techniques to make better, more informed decisions. But these techniques are out of the reach of most users as the knowledge discovery process requires an incredible amount of expertise. Additionally, business intelligence vendors are moving their systems to the cloud in order to provide services which offer companies cost-savings, better performance and faster access to new applications. This work joins both facets. It describes a data mining service addressed to non-expert data miners which can be delivered as Software-as-a-Service. Its main advantage is that by simply indicating where the data file is, the service itself is able to perform all the process.
Keywords: Analytics service; BI-as-a-Service; Knowledge discovery database; Data mining; Service-oriented architecture; Web Services

Wei Zhang, Jasmine Siu Lee Lam,
An empirical analysis of maritime cluster evolution from the port development perspective – Cases of London and Hong Kong,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 105,
2017,
Pages 219-232,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2017.05.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856417304998)
Abstract: The maritime industry has adopted the concept of clustering to promote the growth of related maritime sectors. Based on the theoretical development of maritime cluster evolution in the current research literature, components and functions of maritime clusters are observed to have changed over time. However, very few empirical studies have been conducted on maritime cluster evolution that reflect the diverse components and their interactions within a cluster. Particularly, there is insufficient literature that systematically studies the relationship between ports and other maritime sectors, though the port is deemed to play an important role among sectors in maritime cluster development. This paper aims to fill these research gaps by analysing two cases – London and Hong Kong. London is considered as an international maritime service centre, while Hong Kong is en route to be an international maritime service centre, with the latter cluster possesses a supportive port while the former does not. Grounded on the symbiosis theory, this paper examines the evolution of maritime clusters empirically through investigating the interactions between a port and other sectors within a maritime cluster with the Lotka-Volterra model. Empirical results show that advanced maritime services, namely marine insurance and shipbroking, benefit from port development in London. However, these maritime services sectors are in pure competition with the port sector in Hong Kong. The research provides reference for policy makers on the dynamic development path of maritime clusters in practice.
Keywords: Maritime cluster evolution; Port development; Maritime service; Symbiosis theory; Lotka-Volterra model

David F. Barrero, María D. R-Moreno, David Camacho,
Adapting Searchy to extract data using evolved wrappers,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 39, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 3061-3070,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2011.08.168.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417411012991)
Abstract: Organizations need diverse information systems to deal with the increasing requirements in information storage and processing, yielding the creation of information islands and therefore an intrinsic difficulty to obtain a global view. Being able to provide such an unified view of the -likely heterogeneous-information available in an organization is a goal that provides added-value to the information systems and has been subject of intense research. In this paper we present an extension of a solution named Searchy, an agent-based mediator system specialized in data extraction and Integration. Through the use of a set of wrappers, it integrates information from arbitrary sources and semantically translates them according to a mediated scheme. Searchy is actually a domain-independent wrapper container that ease wrapper development, providing, for example, semantic mapping. The extension of Searchy proposed in this paper introduces an evolutionary wrapper that is able to evolve wrappers using regular expressions. To achieve this, a Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to learn a regex able to extract a set of positive samples while rejects a set of negative samples.
Keywords: Wrappers; Genetic Algorithms; Information extraction

Luis Ribeiro, Jose Barata, Armando Colombo,
Supporting agile supply chains using a service-oriented shop floor,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 22, Issue 6,
2009,
Pages 950-960,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2008.10.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197608001632)
Abstract: The globalized nature of current business environments led to the emergence of new networked enterprise organizational paradigms (supply chains, extended enterprises, virtual enterprises, collaborative networks, etc.) to meet changing requirements and tackle profitable but volatile opportunities overall agility is required. Eventually the shop floor will have to react and accommodate (re)adjustments in the supply chain making it an important piece in the competitiveness puzzle. So far, the research focus has been in high level aspects of supply chain management and the integration of shop floor activities in the process has been left relatively unattended. However, shop floor data is increasingly required in business tools that support decision making. In this context, failing to support agility at shop floor level can compromise the agility of the supply chain. Recent developments in networked information technologies and embedded devices allow enabling intelligence in shop floor rendering it an active and live entity that further enhances the dynamics of the supply chain. The goal of the present work, supported by an implemented test case in the assembly domain, is to demonstrate how one is able to seamless integrate the shop floor with external tools and achieve a highly reconfigurable environment that adapts to changing production requirements and disturbances using service-oriented technology.
Keywords: Service-oriented architectures; Ambient intelligence; Self-actions; Supply chain management; Reconfigurable supply chain

Jürgen Jähnert, Patrick Mandic, Antonio Cuevas, Stefan Wesner, Jose I. Moreno, Victor Villagra, Vicente Olmedo, Burkhard Stiller,
A prototype and demonstrator of Akogrimo’s architecture: An approach of merging grids, SOA, and the mobile Internet,
Computer Communications,
Volume 33, Issue 11,
2010,
Pages 1304-1317,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2010.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014036641000112X)
Abstract: The trend of merging telecommunication infrastructures with traditional Information Technology (IT) infrastructures is ongoing and important for commercial service providers. The driver behind this development is, on one hand, the strong need for enhanced services and on the other hand, the need of telecommunication operators aiming at value-added service provisioning to a wide variety of customers. In the telecommunications sector, the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) is a promising service platform, which may become a “standard” for supporting added-value services on top of the next generation network infrastructure. However, since its range of applicability is bound to SIP- enabled services, IMS extensions are being proposed by “SIPifying” applications. In parallel to these developments within the traditional IT sector, the notion of Virtual Organizations (VO) enabling collaborative businesses across organizational boundaries is addressed in the framework of Web Services (WS) standards implementing a Service-oriented Architecture (SOA). Here, concepts for controlled resource and service sharing based on WS and Semantic Technologies have been consolidated. Since the telecommunications sector has become, in the meantime “mobile”, all concepts brought into this infrastructure must cope with the dynamics mobility brings in. Therefore, within the Akogrimo project the VO concept has been extended towards a Mobile Dynamic Virtual Organization (MDVO) concept, additionally considering key requirements of mobile users and resources. Especial attention is given to ensure the duality of the merge of both, SOA and IMS approaches to holistically support SOA-enabled mobile added-value services and their users. This work describes major results of the Akogrimo project, paying special attention to the overall Akogrimo architecture, the prototype implemented, and the key scenario in which the instantiated Akogrimo architecture shows a very clear picture of applicability, use, and an additional functional evaluation.
Keywords: Mobile Internet; Grids; SoA; IMS; SIP

Steven Lynden, Arijit Mukherjee, Alastair C. Hume, Alvaro A.A. Fernandes, Norman W. Paton, Rizos Sakellariou, Paul Watson,
The design and implementation of OGSA-DQP: A service-based distributed query processor,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 25, Issue 3,
2009,
Pages 224-236,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2008.08.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X08001222)
Abstract: Service-based approaches are rising to prominence because of their potential to meet the requirements for distributed application development in e-business and e-science. The emergence of a service-oriented view of hardware and software resources raises the question as to how database management systems and technologies can best be deployed or adapted for use in such an environment. This paper explores one aspect of service-based computing and data management, viz., how to integrate query processing technology with a service-based architecture suitable for a Grid environment. The paper addresses this by describing in detail the design and implementation of a service-based distributed query processor. The query processor is service-based in two orthogonal senses: firstly, it supports querying over data storage and analysis resources that are made available as services, and, secondly, its internal architecture factors out as services the functionalities related to the construction and execution of distributed query plans. The resulting system both provides a declarative approach to service orchestration, and demonstrates how query processing can benefit from a service-based architecture. As well as describing and motivating the architecture used, the paper also describes usage scenarios, and, using a bioinformatics application, presents performance results that benchmark the system and illustrate the benefits provided by the service-based architecture.
Keywords: Web service; Data integration; Data grid

Getachew F. Belete, Alexey Voinov, Javier Morales,
Designing the Distributed Model Integration Framework – DMIF,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 94,
2017,
Pages 112-126,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2017.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815216309872)
Abstract: We describe and discuss the design and prototype of the Distributed Model Integration Framework (DMIF) that links models deployed on different hardware and software platforms. We used distributed computing and service-oriented development approaches to address the different aspects of interoperability. Reusable web service wrappers were developed for technical interoperability models created in NetLogo and GAMS modeling languages. We investigated automated semantic mapping of text-based input-output data and attribute names of components using word overlap semantic matching algorithms and using an openly available lexical database. We also incorporated automated unit conversion in semantic mediation by using openly available ontologies. DMIF helps to avoid significant amount of reinvention by framework developers, and opens up the modeling process for many stakeholders who are not prepared to deal with the technical difficulties associated with installing, configuring, and running various models. As a proof of concept, we implemented our design to integrate several climate-energy-economy models.
Keywords: Integrated modeling; Web services; Wrapping; Service oriented architecture; Semantic mediation

Ryan Anderson, Deepak Keshwani, Ashu Guru, Haishun Yang, Suat Irmak, Jeyamkondan Subbiah,
An integrated modeling framework for crop and biofuel systems using the DSSAT and GREET models,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 108,
2018,
Pages 40-50,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2018.07.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815217313312)
Abstract: As global demand for food, energy, and water resources continues to increase, decision-makers in these sectors must find sustainable ways to produce and provide for the growing population. While many models have been created to aid in decision-making in these systems, there is a lack of robust integrated models that enable an understanding of the interconnections of these systems. This study develops a modeling framework that explores the connections of the corn and ethanol systems, two major food and energy resources. A crop modeling tool (DSSAT) and a biofuel life cycle assessment tool (GREET) are connected using a service-oriented architecture programming approach. A Python program is developed to connect these two models and run scenario analyses to assess environmental impacts of the integrated system. This paper explores the impact of decisions such as fertilizer use and plant population on environmental effects of greenhouse gases, energy use, and water in the integrated system.
Keywords: Food-water-energy nexus; Crop modeling; Biofuels; Decision support system; Life cycle assessment; Service-oriented architecture

Celson Lima, João F. Martins, José Barata, Luís Ribeiro, Gonçalo Cândido,
Towards a service based infrastructure to improve efficiency into energy systems: the NEMO&CODED quest,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 43, Issue 4,
2010,
Pages 162-167,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661777,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20100701-2-PT-4011.00029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S147466701530135X)
Abstract: Energy efficiency is absolutely one of the greatest challenges of our days. The whole chain of actors involved in the generation, distribution, and consumption of energy are not only concerned but also acting towards a more rational and efficient use of energy. Additionally, the use of renewable energy sources also reflects the seriousness of the subject and helps to set up the current landscape on this matter. This is the rationale driving the NEMO&CODED (NEMO) project, which targets the development of a software infrastructure, based on web services and semantic resources aiming to provide the appropriate support to manage energy-related devices (e.g. renewable energy sources, smart meters, etc.) considering an environment where energy is generated, stored, distributed, and consumed in a rational and environmentally correct way. This shall be attained through the comprehensive implementation and instantiation of computational intelligence at resource level and the development of mechanisms that enable the seamless, and online, control/monitoring of aggregations of resources. This paper discusses the NEMO project, namely its vision, goals, preliminary software architecture, evaluation and assessment scenarios, and also points out the further work (research, design, and implementation) to be performed.
Keywords: Energy Efficiency; Service Oriented Architecture; Web Services; DPWS.

Paulo Leitão, J. Marco Mendes, Axel Bepperling, Daniel Cachapa, Armando W. Colombo, Francisco Restivo,
ENGINEERING TOOLS FOR THE INTEGRATION OF SERVICE-ORIENTED PRODUCTION SYSTEMS,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 42, Issue 4,
2009,
Pages 1772-1777,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661432,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20090603-3-RU-2001.0172.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667016340563)
Abstract: Engineering frameworks are currently required to support the easy, low-cost, modular and integrated development of production systems, addressing the emergent requirements of reconfigurability, responsiveness and robustness. This paper discusses the integration of High-level Petri net-based service-oriented frameworks with 2D/3D engineering tools, allowing the digitally design, configuration, validation, simulation, control and monitoring of production systems, in an integrated manner. An experimental case study was implemented, based on the Petri nets development toolKit (PndK) development framework, to validate the proposed concepts.

Eskandar Gholipour, Seyyed Mostafa Nosratabadi,
A new coordination strategy of SSSC and PSS controllers in power system using SOA algorithm based on Pareto method,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 67,
2015,
Pages 462-471,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2014.12.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061514007479)
Abstract: Along with the development of power grids and increasing the use of Flexible AC Transmission System (FACTS) devices, complex and unexpected interactions will be increased in power system. With considering to the non-linearity of power system, operating point changes and reaction between power system and FACTS devices, using of linear methods are not suitable for controller design. Therefore, the nonlinear model to design of Power System Stabilizer (PSS) and Static Synchronous Series Compensator (SSSC) coordinated controllers is considered here. In this paper, a new multi-objective function as an optimization problem is proposed for this coordination process. Also a beneficial strategy to solve this optimization problem using Seeker Optimization Algorithm (SOA) based on Pareto optimum method with high convergence speed is presented. In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed method, coordination strategy is applied on a four-machine system under different contingencies. The results of the proposed multi-objective function are obtained and compared with others in this system and finally, superior ability of the proposed method is observed.
Keywords: Power system stability; Seeker Optimization Algorithm (SOA); SSSC; PSS; Pareto method; Coordination design

Rick Sturm, Carol Pollard, Julie Craig,
Chapter 2 - The Evolution of Application Management,
Editor(s): Rick Sturm, Carol Pollard, Julie Craig,
Application Performance Management (APM) in the Digital Enterprise,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2017,
Pages 11-24,
ISBN 9780128040188,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-804018-8.00002-4.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128040188000024)
Abstract: Application management is closely coupled to the technologies of application software and the associated networks, systems, and databases. As such, it is always constrained and at the same time driven by those technologies. It is important to understand how application management has developed and evolved in order to help the reader better understand and give context to modern application management. Although built on the innovations of the past, modern applications and the management of them have been revolutionized since the beginning of the 21st century. The complexity of the management challenge has increased tremendously as applications have become componentized, virtualized, and often running in a cloud environment. Fortunately, a powerful collection of management tools has emerged to enable the automation of the management of modern applications.
Keywords: Client/server architecture; Cloud computing; Componentization; Distributed computing; Independent software vendors (ISVs); Job control language (JCL); Local area networks (LANs); Mainframe computers; Master console operator (MCO); Service-oriented architecture (SOA)

Hongyu Pei Breivold, Ivica Crnkovic, Magnus Larsson,
A systematic review of software architecture evolution research,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 16-40,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2011.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584911001376)
Abstract: Context
Software evolvability describes a software system’s ability to easily accommodate future changes. It is a fundamental characteristic for making strategic decisions, and increasing economic value of software. For long-lived systems, there is a need to address evolvability explicitly during the entire software lifecycle in order to prolong the productive lifetime of software systems. For this reason, many research studies have been proposed in this area both by researchers and industry practitioners. These studies comprise a spectrum of particular techniques and practices, covering various activities in software lifecycle. However, no systematic review has been conducted previously to provide an extensive overview of software architecture evolvability research.
Objective
In this work, we present such a systematic review of architecting for software evolvability. The objective of this review is to obtain an overview of the existing approaches in analyzing and improving software evolvability at architectural level, and investigate impacts on research and practice.
Method
The identification of the primary studies in this review was based on a pre-defined search strategy and a multi-step selection process.
Results
Based on research topics in these studies, we have identified five main categories of themes: (i) techniques supporting quality consideration during software architecture design, (ii) architectural quality evaluation, (iii) economic valuation, (iv) architectural knowledge management, and (v) modeling techniques. A comprehensive overview of these categories and related studies is presented.
Conclusion
The findings of this review also reveal suggestions for further research and practice, such as (i) it is necessary to establish a theoretical foundation for software evolution research due to the fact that the expertise in this area is still built on the basis of case studies instead of generalized knowledge; (ii) it is necessary to combine appropriate techniques to address the multifaceted perspectives of software evolvability due to the fact that each technique has its specific focus and context for which it is appropriate in the entire software lifecycle.
Keywords: Software evolvability; Systematic review; Software architecture; Architecture evolution; Architecture analysis; Evolvability analysis

Boris Perez, Dario Correal,
A Model Driven Approach to the Analysis of Quality Scenarios within Self-Adaptable SOA Systems,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 281,
2011,
Pages 113-126,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2011.11.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066111001782)
Abstract: Self-adaptive behavior is a feature which architects needs to include in their systems in order to improve its reliability. However, despite several ways to get it, it is still hard to implement a self-adaptive system focused on non-functional properties. Difficulties to express quality attributes in the system without combining business logic with the self-adaptation logic and to include new services on runtime are some of them. In this paper we propose a model-driven analysis approach to offer a mechanism which allow the desired quality requirements to be expressed in a simple and non-intrusive manner, to find the best services available in a system and, to offer a code generation mechanism which takes the models created under the first objective and generates the necessary code for autonomously monitoring and adapting a SOA system.
Keywords: MDA; Self-Adaptation; Software Quality; Service Selection

Sana Bent Aboulkacem Guetat, Salem Ben Dhaou Dakhli,
The Governance of Services-based Integration of Urbanized Information Systems,
Procedia Technology,
Volume 9,
2013,
Pages 596-607,
ISSN 2212-0173,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2013.12.066.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221201731300220X)
Abstract: The role of information systems is ever more critical in supporting complex organizational processes. In other words, modern organizations survival depends on the efficiency of the support brought by IT to organizational processes. They need sophisticated methods, approaches, and tools to solve the new challenges created by environmental constraints. Agile Information systems are among the instruments proposed by academics and practitioners to help organizations in managing continuous change and overcoming problems induced by external pressures. Many solutions have been proposed by academics and practitioners in order to help organizations build agile information systems. Despite their richness, the proposed frameworks don’t consider the critical role played by information systems governance in the development and use of agile information systems. The “information city” framework describes how to build and govern agile information systems. The application of the “information city” framework is called information systems urbanization. Nevertheless, the integration of urbanized information systems is among the major problems to solve in order to maximize and sustain the benefits of information systems urbanization. In this paper, we analyze the contribution of services to urbanized information systems integration.
Keywords: information city; information system urbanization; information system integration; urbanized information system; service; service contract; service versioning; service reuse

W. Ait-Cheik-Bihi, M. Bakhouya, A. Nait-Sidi-Moh, J. Gaber, M. Wack,
A Platform for Interactive Location-Based Services,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 5,
2011,
Pages 697-704,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2011.07.091.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050911004169)
Abstract: The rapid expansion of wireless technologies and their interactions with wired networks together with wide spread of Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) infrastructures allow today the development of location-based services (LBS). Furthermore, the evolution of service oriented infrastructures enables information sharing between applications over the network. In this paper, a distributed interactive platform, called TransportML, for LBS interaction and cooperation is presented. It is an extended XML platform based on Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) principles to recognize, to monitor, and to collect service information and description over the network. A prototype is developed, in the context of intelligent transportation systems (ITS), to allow sharing information collected by each service and then acquiring more information about the driving context. This information helps drivers making appropriate decisions and, therefore, increases and improves road safety. The prototype is tested in urban and highway areas and results are reported to show the benefit of using this platform for sharing road information as well as services interaction.
Keywords: Location-based services; GNSS; SOA; Inter-vehicle communication; ITS applications

Kam Hay Fung, Graham Cedric Low,
Methodology evaluation framework for dynamic evolution in composition-based distributed applications,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 82, Issue 12,
2009,
Pages 1950-1965,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2009.06.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121209001393)
Abstract: Dynamic evolution can be used to upgrade distributed applications without shutdown and restart as a way of improving service levels while minimising the loss of business revenue caused by the downtime. An evaluation framework assessing the level of support offered by existing methodologies in composition-based application (e.g. component-based and service-oriented) development is proposed. It was developed by an analysis of the literature and existing methodologies together with a refinement based on a survey of experienced practitioners and researchers. The use of the framework is demonstrated by applying it to twelve methodologies to assess their support for dynamic evolution.
Keywords: Dynamic evolution; Composition-based applications; Service-oriented computing; Feature analysis; Evaluation framework; Method engineering

Jehad Al Dallal,
Object-oriented class maintainability prediction using internal quality attributes,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 2028-2048,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2013.07.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584913001511)
Abstract: Context
Class maintainability is the likelihood that a class can be easily modified. Before releasing an object-oriented software system, it is impossible to know with certainty when, where, how, and how often a class will be modified. At that stage, this likelihood can be estimated using the internal quality attributes of a class, which include cohesion, coupling, and size. To reduce the future class maintenance efforts and cost, developers are encouraged to carefully test and well document low maintainability classes before releasing the object-oriented system.
Objective
We empirically study the relationship between internal class quality attributes (size, cohesion, and coupling) and an external quality attribute (class maintainability). Using statistical techniques, we also construct models based on the selected internal attributes to predict class maintainability.
Method
We consider classes of three open-source systems. For each class, we account for two actual maintainability indicators, the number of revised lines of code and the number of revisions in which the class was involved. Using 19 internal quality measures, we empirically explore the impact of size, cohesion, and coupling on class maintainability. We also empirically investigate the abilities of the measures, considered both individually and combined, to estimate class maintainability. Statistically based prediction models are constructed and validated.
Results
Our results demonstrate that classes with better qualities (i.e., higher cohesion values and lower size and coupling values) have better maintainability (i.e., are more likely to be easily modified) than those of worse qualities. Most of the considered measures are shown to be predictors of the considered maintainability indicators to some degree. The abilities of the considered internal quality measures to predict class maintainability are improved when the measures are combined using optimized multivariate statistical models.
Conclusion
The prediction models can help software engineers locate classes with low maintainability. These classes must be carefully tested and well documented.
Keywords: Internal and external quality attributes; Quality measures; Class cohesion; Class coupling; Class size; Class maintainability

Soe-Tsyr Yuan, Mei-Rung Lu,
An value-centric event driven model and architecture: A case study of adaptive complement of SOA for distributed care service delivery,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 36, Issue 2, Part 2,
2009,
Pages 3671-3694,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2008.02.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417408001565)
Abstract: The Web is now evolving into a medium for providing a wide array of e-commerce and other information based services that are solely based on distributed software interactions for collaborative work. Service-oriented and event-driven architectures (SOA and EDA) are the complementary paradigms for building such distributed information systems based on software interactions as their characteristics of modularity, loose-couplings, and flexibility. However, given the rapid change of the web environment (including the dynamic behavior of the users), these paradigms are not yet able to empower a built system adapting its behavior according to the changes in its environment or in parts of the system itself. This paper presents an architecture of adaptive integration of EDA and SOA based on the novel concept of value-centric processing and communication of events grounded on value theory. This architecture has also been used on a case study of distributed care service delivery. In the architecture, value models are devised to represent events consumed and develop a value-centric mechanism for this adaptive integration. We have also implemented the system and simulated certain representative scenarios in order to justify the claimed values of this adaptive integration on the case study.
Keywords: Value theory; EDA; SOA; Distributed service delivery; Intelligent agents; Electronic care systems

Gianpaolo Cugola, Carlo Ghezzi, Leandro Sales Pinto, Giordano Tamburrelli,
SelfMotion: A declarative approach for adaptive service-oriented mobile applications,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 92,
2014,
Pages 32-44,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2013.10.057.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121213002653)
Abstract: Modern society increasingly relies on mobile devices. This explains the growing demand for high quality software for such devices. To improve the efficiency of the development life-cycle, shortening time-to-market while keeping quality under control, mobile applications are typically developed by composing together ad-hoc developed components, services available on-line, and other third-party mobile applications. Applications are thus built as heterogeneous compositions, whose characteristics strongly depend on the components and services they integrate. To cope with unpredictable changes and failures, but also with the various settings offered by the plethora of available devices, mobile applications need to be as adaptive as possible. However, mainstream adaptation strategies are usually defined imperatively and require complex control strategies strongly intertwined with the application logic, yielding to applications that are difficult to build, maintain, and evolve. We address this issue by proposing a declarative approach to compose adaptive heterogeneous mobile applications. The advantages of this approach are demonstrated through an example inspired by an existing worldwide distributed mobile application, while the implementation of the proposed solution has been validated through a set of simulations and experiments aimed at illustrating its performance.
Keywords: Mobile applications; Self-adaptive systems; Declarative language

Rick Sturm, Carol Pollard, Julie Craig,
Chapter 9 - Distributed and Componentized Applications,
Editor(s): Rick Sturm, Carol Pollard, Julie Craig,
Application Performance Management (APM) in the Digital Enterprise,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2017,
Pages 107-119,
ISBN 9780128040188,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-804018-8.00009-7.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128040188000097)
Abstract: The definition of the word “application” is exceedingly broad and defined differently in a wide variety of contexts. Often, the only trait “applications” have in common is the fact that they are created from software code and designed to perform a discrete task or set of tasks. For example, in the network management space, File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is considered an “application.” In the desktop space, Microsoft Word and Virtual Private Network (VPN) software are “applications.” On a mobile device, an application can be either a tiny native “app” running on the device or a traditional web application running on a mobile browser. To complicate matters even further, for both the native app and the web application, the user interface may be just the tip of the iceberg. Both may well front a massive enterprise resource planning (ERP) system consisting of hundreds of application modules and thousands of functions—yet both the app and the ERP system are often described as “applications.” This diversity can be extremely confusing when attempting to navigate the sea of application performance management (APM) products currently in the marketplace. Often, different APM solutions are designed to support specific application types, and it can be frustrating and time consuming to search for the one product that best meets a buyer's specific requirements. This chapter discusses the challenges inherent in managing distributed, component-based applications. These complex application types include most custom applications and, increasingly, microservice- and application programming interface–based applications as well. They can also include services built over service-oriented architecture, hybrid applications executing across on-premises and public cloud, and even complex web applications. All traverse multiple infrastructure elements, software components, network segments, and/or platforms during end-to-end execution. The growth of these types of applications creates a level of complexity that makes enterprise-grade APM solutions essential to day-to-day application support. Without automated toolsets, it is extremely difficult to ensure the quality of complex application systems or to mitigate the support costs, skill levels, and workforce effort relating to their management.
Keywords: API gateway; Component-based applications; Content delivery networks (CDNs); Distributed computing; Docker; Enterprise service bus (ESB); Integrated applications; Topology modeling; Transaction tracing; Windows management instrumentation (WMI)

Daniel P. Ames, Jeffery S. Horsburgh, Yang Cao, Jiří Kadlec, Timothy Whiteaker, David Valentine,
HydroDesktop: Web services-based software for hydrologic data discovery, download, visualization, and analysis,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 37,
2012,
Pages 146-156,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2012.03.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815212001053)
Abstract: Discovering and accessing hydrologic and climate data for use in research or water management can be a difficult task that consumes valuable time and personnel resources. Until recently, this task required discovering and navigating many different data repositories, each having its own website, query interface, data formats, and descriptive language. New advances in cyberinfrastructure and in semantic mediation technologies have provided the means for creating better tools supporting data discovery and access. In this paper we describe a freely available and open source software tool, called HydroDesktop, that can be used for discovering, downloading, managing, visualizing, and analyzing hydrologic data. HydroDesktop was created as a means for searching across and accessing hydrologic data services that have been published using the Consortium of Universities for the Advancement of Hydrologic Science, Inc. (CUAHSI) Hydrologic Information System (HIS). We describe the design and architecture of HydroDesktop, its novel contributions in web services-based hydrologic data search and discovery, and its unique extensibility interface that enables developers to create custom data analysis and visualization plug-ins. The functionality of HydroDesktop and some of its existing plug-ins are introduced in the context of a case study for discovering, downloading, and visualizing data within the Bear River Watershed in Idaho, USA.
Keywords: Data management; Geographic information system; Hydrologic information systems; Hydrologic modeling; Observation data; Web services

Yoonsik Uhm, Minsoo Lee, Zion Hwang, Yong Kim, Sehyun Park,
A multi-resolution agent for service-oriented situations in ubiquitous domains,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 38, Issue 10,
2011,
Pages 13291-13300,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2011.04.150.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417411006774)
Abstract: In recent years, the situation-aware system field, with service-oriented technologies, has experienced extraordinary development. However, situation-aware systems have yet to achieve widespread use for managing complex situations in ubiquitous domains. Most research focuses on developing context modeling, event recognition, mobility detection, and intelligent reasoning, which are only applicable to static applications in a specific small-scale domain such as a home network. Consequently, a user may experience undesired and unpredictable service interruptions owing to the system’s failure to manage service conflicts due to the complex situations which involve a larger number of inter-dependent dynamic objects in multi-domains. A situation management system is required to support users in seamlessly receiving the best services available, while concurrently resolving possible conflicts through a combination of effective methods for situation modeling, recognition, prediction and decision. We propose a multi-resolution agent which provides service prediction and service convergence for enhanced user service reception. This is accomplished by using a dynamic policy modification and adaptive situation learning with activity patterns, through information fusion. The system recognizes possible service conflicts and predicts the adaptive services on complex, often incomplete and unpredictable, dynamic situations, when users roam among different domains requesting new services. We also present the performance results with a new metric, service satisfaction, to show that the proposed solution can support guaranteed services in unique situation management examples, in which possible conflicts are smoothly resolved in complex situations involving nomadic users.
Keywords: Multi-resolution agent; Service prediction; Pattern analysis; Multi domains; Service satisfaction; Situation management

Luis Marco-Ruiz, Carlos Pedrinaci, J.A. Maldonado, Luca Panziera, Rong Chen, J. Gustav Bellika,
Publication, discovery and interoperability of Clinical Decision Support Systems: A Linked Data approach,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 62,
2016,
Pages 243-264,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2016.07.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S153204641630065X)
Abstract: Background
The high costs involved in the development of Clinical Decision Support Systems (CDSS) make it necessary to share their functionality across different systems and organizations. Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) have been proposed to allow reusing CDSS by encapsulating them in a Web service. However, strong barriers in sharing CDS functionality are still present as a consequence of lack of expressiveness of services’ interfaces. Linked Services are the evolution of the Semantic Web Services paradigm to process Linked Data. They aim to provide semantic descriptions over SOA implementations to overcome the limitations derived from the syntactic nature of Web services technologies.
Objective
To facilitate the publication, discovery and interoperability of CDS services by evolving them into Linked Services that expose their interfaces as Linked Data.
Materials and methods
We developed methods and models to enhance CDS SOA as Linked Services that define a rich semantic layer based on machine interpretable ontologies that powers their interoperability and reuse. These ontologies provided unambiguous descriptions of CDS services properties to expose them to the Web of Data.
Results
We developed models compliant with Linked Data principles to create a semantic representation of the components that compose CDS services. To evaluate our approach we implemented a set of CDS Linked Services using a Web service definition ontology. The definitions of Web services were linked to the models developed in order to attach unambiguous semantics to the service components. All models were bound to SNOMED-CT and public ontologies (e.g. Dublin Core) in order to count on a lingua franca to explore them. Discovery and analysis of CDS services based on machine interpretable models was performed reasoning over the ontologies built.
Discussion
Linked Services can be used effectively to expose CDS services to the Web of Data by building on current CDS standards. This allows building shared Linked Knowledge Bases to provide machine interpretable semantics to the CDS service description alleviating the challenges on interoperability and reuse. Linked Services allow for building ‘digital libraries’ of distributed CDS services that can be hosted and maintained in different organizations.
Keywords: Clinical Decision Support; Linked Data; Semantic Web Service; Semantic interoperability; Service Oriented Architecture; Medical ontologies

Halil Akıncı, Faik Ahmet Sesli, Sedat Doğan,
Implementation of a web services-based SDI to control and manage private ownership rights on coastal areas,
Ocean & Coastal Management,
Volume 67,
2012,
Pages 54-62,
ISSN 0964-5691,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2012.06.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0964569112001494)
Abstract: It is stated in the legislation related to the management of coastal areas, particularly in the Coastal Law, that private ownership shall not be allowed in coastal areas in Turkey. However, due to deficiencies in the legislation, insufficiencies in control and enforcement, and, most importantly, lack of interoperability among institutions, it is evident that private ownership exists in coastal areas. According to the Coastal Law and the Regulation for Application of the Coastal Law, Shore Border Line (SBL) infringing sections of a real estate that remain on the coast should be annulled from the title and they should be allocated for public use. In practice, owing to the fact that institutions, which perform title annulment procedures, collect the required spatial data from the related institutions via traditional methods, it is seen that procedures are carried out quite slowly, and the process of title annulment lasts for months. Effective cooperation among many different institutions is needed in the management of coastal areas. The mechanism that will ensure this cooperation is “Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI).” The SDIs are interoperability infrastructures that allow sharing of the data and services among the related institutions or parties. Service Oriented Architecture and its most common implementation method, web services, are the latest software architecture that is recommended for realizing interoperability. In this study, the legislation related to management of coastal areas in Turkey is examined and institutions, which appear in the process of title annulment of real estates, which remain on the coast by infringing the SBL, and the procedures carried out are explained. Next, a series of web services were designed and developed for an SDI implementation, and it is demonstrated that procedures which are in practice implemented quite slowly by traditional methods can be implemented in a fast and proper manner in a web services-based SDI environment.

Kuo-Chan Huang, Bo-Jun Shen,
Service deployment strategies for efficient execution of composite SaaS applications on cloud platform,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 107,
2015,
Pages 127-141,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2015.05.050.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121215001156)
Abstract: Cloud computing has caused a revolution in our way of developing and using software. Software development and deployment based on the new models of Software as a Service (SaaS) and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) are expected to bring a lot of benefits for users. However, software developers and service providers have to address new challenging issues before such benefits can be realized. This paper explores one of the critical issues, service deployment, for reducing execution time of composite SaaS applications, and proposes an integrated approach to the service deployment problem which takes not only inter-service communication costs but also the potential parallelism among services into consideration. In the approach, two types of graphs are developed to model the communication costs between services, Service Dependency Graph (SDG), and potential parallelism among services, Service Concurrence Graph (SCG), respectively. Then, these two graphs are integrated into a single Service Relationship Graph (SRG) and the service deployment problem is transformed into a minimum k-cut problem for solution. A series of experiments were conducted to evaluate the proposed approach. The experimental results indicate that our approach outperforms previous deployment methods significantly in terms of service response time.
Keywords: Service-oriented architecture; Composite SaaS; Service deployment

Jaejoon Lee, Dirk Muthig, Matthias Naab,
A feature-oriented approach for developing reusable product line assets of service-based systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 83, Issue 7,
2010,
Pages 1123-1136,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2010.01.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121210000324)
Abstract: Service orientation (SO) is a relevant promising candidate for accommodating rapidly changing user needs and expectations. One of the goals of adopting SO is the improvement of reusability, however, the development of service-based system in practice has uncovered several challenging issues, such as how to identify reusable services, how to determine configurations of services that are relevant to users’ current product configuration and context, and how to maintain service validity after configuration changes. In this paper, we propose a method that addresses these issues by adapting a feature-oriented product line engineering approach. The method is notable in that it guides developers to identify reusable services at the right level of granularity and to map users’ context to relevant service configuration, and it also provides a means to check the validity of services at runtime in terms of invariants and pre/post-conditions of services. Moreover, we propose a heterogeneous style based architecture model for developing such systems.
Keywords: Software product line engineering; Feature-oriented; Service-based systems; Software architecture; Software architecture styles

Víctor Manuel Álvarez García, María del Puerto Paule Ruiz, Juan Ramón Pérez Pérez,
Voice interactive classroom, a service-oriented software architecture for speech-enabled learning,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 33, Issue 5,
2010,
Pages 603-610,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2010.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804510000408)
Abstract: Software technology is creating a ubiquitous context for human living and learning in which new modes of interaction are gradually being incorporated. Speech-enabled software brings a new way of interacting with the Internet, but auditory access to web resources needs to be more broadly supported by software architectures. This paper introduces “Voice Interactive Classroom”, a software solution that proposes a middleware approach to provide cross-platform multi-channel access to internet-based learning.
Keywords: Voice interactive learning; Service-oriented architecture (SOA); Ubiquitous learning

Thomas Haitzer, Elena Navarro, Uwe Zdun,
Reconciling software architecture and source code in support of software evolution,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 123,
2017,
Pages 119-144,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2016.10.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121216302114)
Abstract: Even in the eighties, the need of managing software evolution has been detected as one of the most complex aspects of the software lifecycle. In this context, software architecture has been highlighted as an integral element of the software evolution process. However, no matter how much effort is put into the architecture, it must eventually be translated into source code. The potential misalignment between architecture and code can lead to failures in the evolution process in terms of economic impacts, failed expectations, and so on. In this article we report on a design science research study that we pursued to answer three research questions. First, we have studied whether and in how far it is possible to design an approach that both enforces the integration between software architecture and source code to avoid architectural erosion and architectural drift and, at the same time, provides automatic guidance to developers to carry out the required change tasks in each evolution steps. Second, we have studied whether this approach may be applied in realistic (open source) cases. Finally, we have analysed whether it is realizable at acceptable costs (in terms of development effort) in comparison to the overall development efforts roughly spent on the evolution of the projects in focus.
Keywords: Components; ADLs; Architecture reconstruction; Evolution styles; M2M transformation; Architectural knowledge

Sara Mahdavi-Hezavehi, Matthias Galster, Paris Avgeriou,
Variability in quality attributes of service-based software systems: A systematic literature review,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 320-343,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.08.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912001772)
Abstract: Context
Variability is the ability of a software artifact (e.g., a system, component) to be adapted for a specific context, in a preplanned manner. Variability not only affects functionality, but also quality attributes (e.g., security, performance). Service-based software systems consider variability in functionality implicitly by dynamic service composition. However, variability in quality attributes of service-based systems seems insufficiently addressed in current design practices.
Objective
We aim at (a) assessing methods for handling variability in quality attributes of service-based systems, (b) collecting evidence about current research that suggests implications for practice, and (c) identifying open problems and areas for improvement.
Method
A systematic literature review with an automated search was conducted. The review included studies published between the year 2000 and 2011. We identified 46 relevant studies.
Results
Current methods focus on a few quality attributes, in particular performance and availability. Also, most methods use formal techniques. Furthermore, current studies do not provide enough evidence for practitioners to adopt proposed approaches. So far, variability in quality attributes has mainly been studied in laboratory settings rather than in industrial environments.
Conclusions
The product line domain as the domain that traditionally deals with variability has only little impact on handling variability in quality attributes. The lack of tool support, the lack of practical research and evidence for the applicability of approaches to handle variability are obstacles for practitioners to adopt methods. Therefore, we suggest studies in industry (e.g., surveys) to collect data on how practitioners handle variability of quality attributes in service-based systems. For example, results of our study help formulate hypotheses and questions for such surveys. Based on needs in practice, new approaches can be proposed.
Keywords: Variability; Service-based systems; Quality attributes; Systematic literature review

Lov Kumar, Santanu Ku. Rath,
Hybrid functional link artificial neural network approach for predicting maintainability of object-oriented software,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 121,
2016,
Pages 170-190,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2016.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121216000054)
Abstract: In present day, software development methodology is mostly based on object-oriented paradigm. With the increase in the number of these software system, their effective maintenance aspects becomes a crucial factor. Most of the maintainability prediction models in literature are based on techniques such as regression analysis and simple neural network. In this paper, three artificial intelligence techniques (AI) such as hybrid approach of functional link artificial neural network (FLANN) with genetic algorithm (GA), particle swarm optimization (PSO) and clonal selection algorithm (CSA), i.e., FLANN-Genetic (FGA and AFGA), FLANN-PSO (FPSO and MFPSO), FLANN-CSA (FCSA) are applied to design a model for predicting maintainability. These three AI techniques are applied to predict maintainability on two case studies such as Quality Evaluation System (QUES) and User Interface System (UIMS). This paper also focuses on the effectiveness of feature reduction techniques such as rough set analysis (RSA) and principal component analysis (PCA) when they are applied for predicting maintainability. The results show that feature reduction techniques are very effective in obtaining better results while using FLANN-Genetic.
Keywords: Artificial neural network; CK metrics suite; Maintainability

Vicente Olmedo, Víctor A. Villagrá, Kleopatra Konstanteli, Juan E. Burgos, Julio Berrocal,
Network mobility support for Web Service-based Grids through the Session Initiation Protocol,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 25, Issue 7,
2009,
Pages 758-767,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2008.11.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X08001921)
Abstract: The concept of mobility has undergone a deep evolution from the traditional idea of terminal mobility to the broader concept of service mobility. Next Generation Networks support mobility for users as a key feature. In a similar way, Next Generation Grids need to support mobility for services in order to actually become pervasive and ubiquitous. Thus, the utilization of the features already offered by the network is desirable in order to avoid duplication of functionality and to ease development. This paper describes an approach based on the utilization of the SIP-based network signaling infrastructure by the Grid application layer that allows the location, invocation and real-time context awareness of services no matter where they are running in. Implementation details are given and the Akogrimo project is presented as a proof of concept.
Keywords: Session initiation protocol; Service-oriented grids; Mobility; Next generation networks

Siim Karus, Marlon Dumas,
Predicting the maintainability of XSL transformations,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 76, Issue 12,
2011,
Pages 1161-1176,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2010.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642310002315)
Abstract: XSLT is a popular language for implementing both presentation templates in Web applications as well as document and message converters in enterprise applications. The widespread adoption and popularity of XSLT raises the challenge of efficiently managing the evolution of significant amounts of XSLT code. This challenge calls for guidelines and tool support for developing maintainable XSLT code. In this setting, this paper addresses the following question: Can the maintainability of XSL transformations, measured in terms of code churn in the next revision of a transformation, be predicted using a combination of simple metrics? This question is studied using a dataset extracted from open-source software project repositories. An outcome of this empirical study is a set of statistical models for predicting the maintainability of XSL transformations with relatively high accuracy. In addition, by analyzing the major influencers of code churn in these models, the paper identifies guidelines for designing XSL transformations with reduced future churn.
Keywords: Software maintenance; XML; XSLT; Software metrics

W. Li, H. Shao, S. Wang, X. Zhou, S. Wu,
Chapter 9 - A2CI: A Cloud-Based, Service-Oriented Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure to Support Atmospheric Research,
Editor(s): Tiffany C. Vance, Nazila Merati, Chaowei Yang, May Yuan,
Cloud Computing in Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences,
Academic Press,
2016,
Pages 137-161,
ISBN 9780128031926,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-803192-6.00009-8.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128031926000098)
Abstract: Big Earth science data offer the scientific community today great opportunities. Many more studies at large scale, long term, and high resolution can now be conducted using the rich information collected by remote sensing satellites, ground-based sensor networks, and even social media input. However, the hundreds of terabytes of information collected and compiled on an hourly basis by NASA and other government agencies present a significant challenge for atmospheric scientists seeking to improve the understanding of the Earth atmospheric system. These challenges include effective discovery, organization, analysis, and visualization of large amounts of data. This paper reports the outcomes of an NSF-funded project that developed a geospatial cyberinfrastructure—the A2CI (Atmospheric Analysis Cyberinfrastructure)—to support atmospheric research. We first introduce the service-oriented system framework, then describe in detail the implementation of the data discovery module, data management module, data integration module, data analysis and visualization modules following the cloud-computing principles—Data as a Service, Software as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Infrastructure as a Service. We demonstrate the graphic user interface by performing an analysis between Sea Surface Temperature and the intensity of tropical storms in the North Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. We expect this work to contribute to the technical advancement of cyberinfrastructure research as well as to the development of an online, collaborative scientific analysis system for atmospheric science.
Keywords: Crawler; Cyberinfrastructure; Interoperability; Service-oriented; Visualization

Frank Cohen,
Chapter 7 - Learning XML-Centric Technology for SOA,
Editor(s): Frank Cohen,
In The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems,
FastSOA,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2007,
Pages 151-199,
ISBN 9780123695130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012369513-0/50008-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123695130500082)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter covers the basics of the XQuery language, the scalability issues surrounding integration of XQuery into a Java application, the blunders made while learning XQuery and native XML databases, and the safebets that will likely be in the XQuery specification in the near future and already exist in many XQuery implementations. This chapter also introduces to XQuery, XPath, and native extensible markup language (XML) database technology through a set of examples built around a cookie factory. This cookie factory is like most manufacturers today. It receives orders from customers and orders ingredients for its products from suppliers. In the pre–service-oriented architecture (SOA) days, the cookie factory's IT staff may have bought a commercial software solution to run the business, hired engineers to write code to expose a web browser interface for customers to place orders, and wrote code to work with the supplier's order system.

Antonio Jesús Fernández-García, Luis Iribarne, Antonio Corral, Javier Criado, James Z. Wang,
A flexible data acquisition system for storing the interactions on mashup user interfaces,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 59,
2018,
Pages 10-34,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2018.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548917300661)
Abstract: Nowadays, mashups applications are growing in popularity. They are accessible by cross-device applications, supporting multiple forms of interaction in cloud environments. In general, mashups manage a huge amount of heterogeneous data from different sources and handle different kinds of users. In this respect, mashup User Interfaces are becoming one of the most important pieces in many kinds of current management systems, such as for certain geographic or environmental information systems working on the Internet. In this type of systems, the user interface plays a particular role due to the huge variety of components or apps that the users need to manage at the same time. However, currently, there has been scant attention paid to the management of the user’s interaction with mashups interfaces. This goal involves the need of having important, well-constructed tools and methods conducting the data acquisition process for managing properly: (a) the interaction over the mashup user interfaces, at the front-end side; (b) the storage of the interaction in relational databases; and (c) well-supported microservices structures handled in the cloud. The fact of having valuable and flexible data acquisition processes encourages the deployment of others important issues of the interaction management, i.e., data searching, data mining, marketing, security, accessibility, usability or traceability of interaction data, among others. In this article, we present a flexible Data Acquisition System capable of capturing the human-computer interactions performed by users over mashup (User) Interfaces with the aim of storing them in a relational database. Firstly, the morphology of traditional mashup applications, their specifications and the relevant information that surrounds an interaction have been studied. Thereupon, a data acquisition system that stores user interaction on mashup based on such specifications was constructed. To achieve that purpose, an architecture of microservices was also designed in the cloud to detect, acquire, and collect the interactions performed over this kind of interfaces. The whole process is ready for acquiring internal data of the information system as well as context information and location awareness. To validate the data acquisition system, some tests on empirical case studies have been developed. Efficiency and effectiveness have also been determined by evaluating the performance of the acquisition system during different load tests. Finally, in order to ensure the software quality, a continuous integration strategy for software development and an easy management of the code have been used, facilitating the software maintenance alongside the microservice architecture, where functionalities are well encapsulated.
Keywords: Mashups; Microservices; Human-computer interaction (HCI); Data acquisition; Cloud computing; Data management

Mark Schram Christensen, Thor Grünbaum,
Sense of agency for movements,
Consciousness and Cognition,
Volume 65,
2018,
Pages 27-47,
ISSN 1053-8100,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2018.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810018300291)
Abstract: In this paper, we argue that the comparator model is not a satisfactory model of sense of agency (SoA). We present a theoretical argument and experimental studies. We show (1) most studies of SoA neglect a distinction between SoA associated with movements (narrow SoA) and SoA associated with environmental events (broad SoA); (2) the comparator model emerges from experimental studies of sensory consequences narrowly associated with movements; (3) narrow SoA can be explained by a comparator model, but a motor signal model is simpler and explain narrow SoA equally well; and (4) standard experimental paradigms study only broad SoA. Finally, we present results from two experiments, where we have failed to induce illusory narrow SoA in healthy participants. We believe our experimental approaches should have led to illusory SoA, if the comparator model of SoA was correct. The results challenge proponents of the comparator model of narrow SoA.
Keywords: Sense of agency; Comparator model; Efference copy; EEG

Carmelo Ardito, Maria Francesca Costabile, Giuseppe Desolda, Rosa Lanzilotti, Maristella Matera, Antonio Piccinno, Matteo Picozzi,
User-driven visual composition of service-based interactive spaces,
Journal of Visual Languages & Computing,
Volume 25, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 278-296,
ISSN 1045-926X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2014.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X14000299)
Abstract: Objective
The overall objective of the research work presented in this paper is to investigate models, methods and architectures to replace fixed, pre-packaged applications with flexible composition environments that make interactive environments “emerge” at run-time, based on composition actions performed by non-technical users. The approach aims at the lightweight construction of integrated, situational workspaces pervasively accessible and sharable through a variety of devices.
Methods
Based on a meta-design approach, we designed and implemented a platform that allows end users, not necessarily experts of technologies, to extract contents from heterogeneous sources and compose Personal Information Spaces (PISs) that satisfy their information needs. Specific emphasis is posed on the adoption of a composition paradigm that abstracts from technical details and can thus be used by non-technical users.
Results
The platform for service composition that supports the activity of the different involved stakeholders is described in details. Thanks to the separation of concerns on which the composition paradigm is based, the overall approach and its enabling platform are also amenable to customization with respect to the requirements of specific domains.
Conclusion
We present an approach where a composition platform enables the extraction of content from heterogeneous services and its integration into situational applications where content presentation is flexibly managed through different visual templates. We also discuss the advantages offered by this approach to the stakeholders of a specific community of users in the Cultural Heritage domain.
Practice
The developed prototypes were evaluated in laboratories and field studies: the former aimed at investigating the ease of use and the users satisfaction of the functionality and the user interface of the environment for domain customization, the latter aimed instead at observing real users (e.g., guides of an archeological park) in action, to assess the validity of the proposed composition paradigm as an EUD practice.
Implications
The user studies described in this paper provided hints for refining the prototypes, and laid the basis for future work related to the identification of design principles that can make service-based composition technologies in general more useful and usable for end users.
Keywords: End-user development; Service composition; Personal information space; Platform-independent models

M. García Valls, P. Basanta Val,
A real-time perspective of service composition: Key concepts and some contributions,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 59, Issue 10, Part D,
2013,
Pages 1414-1423,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2013.06.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762113001239)
Abstract: Timing predictability of service oriented architectures is challenged by their dynamic nature. Systems have to reconfigure their service-based structure to adapt to the changing environmental requirements. The development of dynamic systems that have timing constraints is currently not possible without imposing some bounds and limitations to the structure and operation of the system. This paper identifies the key factors for achieving time-bounded service-based reconfiguration from a system perspective. The key contribution to bypass the possible complexity of the used task model and associated schedulability analysis algorithm is the provided architectural design that separates the composition from the schedulability. The paper also extends a previous service composition algorithm that provided a feasible solution compliant with the application quality of service criteria (QoS). Due to the design based on the separation of concerns, the algorithm is a simple straight forward graph search guided by values related to the application QoS. The generalized algorithm offers a search mechanism guided through n regions going beyond the four regions model of the previous contribution. Results from the previous algorithm and the n regions version are shown to illustrate the advantages and finer grain results of the latter.
Keywords: Service composition; Real time systems; Reconfiguration; Service oriented architecture; SOA; Middleware; Distributed systems

Frank Cohen,
Chapter 4 - Identifying And Avoiding SOA Performance Problems,
Editor(s): Frank Cohen,
In The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems,
FastSOA,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2007,
Pages 75-101,
ISBN 9780123695130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012369513-0/50005-7.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123695130500057)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter discusses the findings from service-oriented architecture (SOA) performance and scalability introduces a new architecture—FastSOA—to solve the problems. The chapter discusses the experiences that lead to develop FastSOA and the common traps that could be avoided by following a set of software development patterns when building SOA application. Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) uses extensible markup language (XML) encoding to marshal data that is transported to a software application. The XML Protocol Working Group at the World Wide Consortium (W3C) standards body was split between two architectural patterns when it developed the SOAP specification. One group viewed SOAP as document-oriented architecture enabling technology. The encoding styles tell a SOAP stack how to transform from XML data into a serialized stream of characters that is sent over a network transport protocol—for instance, Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)—to a remote service and application. The encoding style tells the receiving application of the transformation of the stream of characters back into XML data.

Atif Farid Mohammad, Joumana Dargham, Hamid Mcheick, Attia T. Noor,
Software Evolution as SaaS: Evolution of Intelligent Design in Cloud,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 19,
2013,
Pages 486-493,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.06.065.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091300673X)
Abstract: The aim of this paper is to establish an understanding of software evolution as Software as a Service in the Cloud as a concept in comparison to Biological evolution. Software evolution is a concept that requires a deep understanding for the course of our use in the future and is an important knowledge that can bring in a change of view towards software development altogether. There are several issues of software evolvability provided in this paper. Resolution to these issues through time with software dispersion can be understood as biological inheritance. Study of biological evolution to produce compound adaptive distinction could shed the light on how software evolution can be understood in general and in meticulous understanding of evolutionary computation. We study and accumulate the divergences and possible similarities between biological and software evolution toward the end of thispaper.
Keywords: Architecture; Cloud Computing; Cloud Services; Services; Service Oriented Architecture; Software as a Service

J. González, M. Ruiz, E. Barrera, J.M. López, G. de Arcas, J. Vega,
Service-oriented architecture of adaptive, intelligent data acquisition and processing systems for long-pulse fusion experiments,
Fusion Engineering and Design,
Volume 85, Issues 3–4,
2010,
Pages 274-279,
ISSN 0920-3796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2010.04.041.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920379610001821)
Abstract: The data acquisition systems used in long-pulse fusion experiments need to implement data reduction and pattern recognition algorithms in real time. In order to accomplish these operations, it is essential to employ software tools that allow for hot swap capabilities throughout the temporal evolution of the experiments. This is very important because processing needs are not equal during different phases of the experiment. The intelligent test and measurement system (ITMS) developed by UPM and CIEMAT is an example of a technology for implementing scalable data acquisition and processing systems based on PXI and CompactPCI hardware. In the ITMS platform, a set of software tools allows the user to define the processing algorithms associated with the different experimental phases using state machines driven by software events. These state machines are specified using the State Chart XML (SCXML) language. The software tools are developed using JAVA, JINI, an SCXML engine and several LabVIEW applications. Within this schema, it is possible to execute data acquisition and processing applications in an adaptive way. The power of SCXML semantics and the ability to work with XML user-defined data types allow for very easy programming of the ITMS platform. With this approach, the ITMS platform is a suitable solution for implementing scalable data acquisition and processing systems based on a service-oriented model with the ability to easily implement remote participation applications.
Keywords: Long-pulse experiments; Intelligent data acquisition; PXI; Real time data processing; Service-oriented architecture; JINI; SCXML

Jordi Mongay Batalla, Mariusz Gajewski, Waldemar Latoszek, Piotr Krawiec, Constandinos X. Mavromoustakis, George Mastorakis,
ID-based service-oriented communications for unified access to IoT,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 52,
2016,
Pages 98-113,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.02.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616300362)
Abstract: The dynamic development of technologies for smart devices and the increasing availability of sensors and actuators facilitate significantly the implementation of the Internet of Things (IoT) solutions. The massive use of the IoT depends on the simplification of the set-up and management of the systems, which makes the service creation and composition easier. This paper discusses a prototyped implementation of IDSECOM (ID-based SErvice-oriented COMmunications for unified access in IoT): an innovative hierarchical network infrastructure for connecting IoT objects and services in an easy-to-manage and flexible way. This solution is appropriate when the location of the nodes is closely related to the structure of the environment as it occurs in intelligent buildings/enterprises.
Keywords: Internet of things; Smart objects; Addressing; ID-layer

Marcos López-Sanz, Esperanza Marcos,
ArchiMeDeS: A model-driven framework for the specification of service-oriented architectures,
Information Systems,
Volume 37, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 257-268,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2011.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437911001530)
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for the Model-Driven specification of Software Architectures, which is defined using the concepts behind Service-Orientation. The framework described, denominated as ArchiMeDeS, represents the following: a coherent solution to the problem of architecting the existing gap between the high-level configuration of a software system by describing the business entities and relationships required by a software solution, and its low-level representation, in which the technological aspects determine the final shape of the system, providing technical support to the previously identified business processes and constraints. We also provide a set of transformation rules, which semi-automatically advance in the Architecture specification. These rules allow progress to be made from conceptual architectural models to more technologically dependent ones. The feasibility of the proposed service-oriented framework is validated by showing its usage capabilities in the definition of a software solution in the field of neuroscience research.
Keywords: Software Architecture; Model-Driven Engineering; Service-Orientation

Stephen Lane, Antonio Bucchiarone, Ita Richardson,
SOAdapt: A process reference model for developing adaptable service-based applications,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 299-316,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2011.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584911002126)
Abstract: Context
The loose coupling of services and Service-Based Applications (SBAs) have made them the ideal platform for context-based run-time adaptation. There has been a lot of research into implementation techniques for adapting SBAs, without much effort focused on the software process required to guide the adaptation.
Objective
This paper aims to bridge that gap by providing an empirically grounded software process model that can be used by software practitioners who want to build adaptable SBAs. The process model will focus only on the adaptation specific issues.
Method
The process model presented in this paper is based on data collected through interviews with 10 practitioners occupying various roles within eight different companies. The data was analyzed using qualitative data analysis techniques. We used the output to develop a set of activities, tasks, stakeholders and artifacts that were used to construct the process model.
Results
The outcome of the data analysis process was a process model identifying nine sets of adaptation process attributes. These can be used in conjunction with an organisation’s existing development life-cycle or another reference life-cycle.
Conclusion
The process model developed in this paper provides a solid reference for practitioners who are planning to develop adaptable SBAs. It has advantages over similar approaches in that it focuses on software process rather than the specific adaptation mechanism implementation techniques.
Keywords: SOA; Service-based application; Software process; Process reference model

Joaquín Guillén, Javier Miranda, Juan Manuel Murillo, Carlos Canal,
A service-oriented framework for developing cross cloud migratable software,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 86, Issue 9,
2013,
Pages 2294-2308,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2012.12.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121212003421)
Abstract: Whilst cloud computing has burst into the current scene as a technology that allows companies to access high computing rates at limited costs, cloud vendors have rushed to provide tools that allow developers to build software for their cloud platforms. The software developed with these tools is often tightly coupled to their services and restrictions. Consequently vendor lock in becomes a common problem which multiple cloud users have to tackle in order to exploit the full potential of cloud computing. A scenario where component-based applications are developed for being deployed across several clouds, and each component can independently be deployed in one cloud or another, remains fictitious due to the complexity and the cost of their development. This paper presents a cloud development framework for developing cloud agnostic applications that may be deployed indifferently across multiple cloud platforms. Information about cloud deployment and cloud integration is separated from the source code and managed by the framework. Interoperability between interdependent components deployed in different clouds is achieved by automatically generating services and service clients. This allows software developers to segment their applications into different modules that can easily be deployed and redistributed across heterogeneous cloud platforms.
Keywords: Cloud framework; Adaptation; Cross-cloud applications

Miroslava Raspopović, Svetlana Cvetanović, Dušan Stanojević, Mateja Opačić,
Software architecture for integration of institutional and social learning environments,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 129,
2016,
Pages 92-102,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642316300855)
Abstract: As technology continues to evolve and develop, requirements for effective teaching and learning methodologies are likewise growing and changing. As a result of this trend, Learning Management Systems (LMSs) are usually adopted in certain institutions and sometimes in order to take advantage of technological developments. However, these LMSs are adapted to a certain degree and may restrain users with its set of tools and functionalities. New requirements imply the need for integration with third-party systems and tools which are often used to increase the efficacy of learning. Properly implemented technology can serve as a tool to create new opportunities for learning systems. This work focuses on the design and technological requirements of the software architecture for integrating an institutional e-learning system, an educational management system, and a social learning environment. This work proposes a software architecture that supports functionalities promoting effective teaching and learning, while giving an overview of the diversity of technologies and tools used in the proposed architecture.
Keywords: Software architecture; e-Learning; Service oriented architecture

Zhihui Du, Ligang He, Yinong Chen, Yu Xiao, Peng Gao, Tongzhou Wang,
Robot Cloud: Bridging the power of robotics and cloud computing,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 74,
2017,
Pages 337-348,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2016.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X16000042)
Abstract: Cloud computing is shaping the cyber world and evolves as a key computing and service platform for sharing resources including platforms, software applications and everything in the form of services. This is known “X as a Service”. Although it brings our age unparalleled computing ability and economic benefits, the application of cloud computing is still limited currently in the cyberspace due to the cloud services can only reside in cloud instead of our daily life environment. In fact, there are still a plethora of physical position based on-site service demands that cloud computing could help little due to the “cyber limitation”. In this paper, we aim to integrate the cyber world and the physical world by bringing up the idea of “Robot Cloud” to bridge the power of robotics and cloud computing. To make it possible, we design a novel Robot Cloud stack to support our idea and adopt the service-oriented architecture (SOA) to make the functional modules in the Robot Cloud more flexible, extensible and reusable. Then we develop a prototype of Robot Cloud using the popular Google App Engine to demonstrate our design method. Finally, we conduct the simulation experiments with a “robot show” application scenario to evaluate our scheduling policy and identify the effect of different request distributions and robot center solutions.
Keywords: Service-oriented architecture (SOA); Cloud computing; Robotics; Robot Cloud; Robot as a Service (RaaS)

Vittorio Cortellessa, Raffaela Mirandola, Pasqualina Potena,
Managing the evolution of a software architecture at minimal cost under performance and reliability constraints,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 98, Part 4,
2015,
Pages 439-463,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2014.06.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642314002792)
Abstract: Managing a software architecture after the deployment phase is a very complex task due to frequent changes in the software requirements and environment. The software architecture must evolve in order to tackle such changes. The goal of this paper is to provide support for the decisions that software architects make after deployment. This approach is based on an optimization model whose solution suggests the “best” actions to be taken according to a given change scenario (i.e., a set of new requirements that induce changes in the structural and behavioral aspects of the software architecture). The model aims to minimize the costs while keeping the reliability and the performance of the software architecture within certain thresholds. The approach has been implemented as a framework named SHEPhERd, which is composed of a UML case tool, a model builder and a model solver. We show how SHEPhERd works on a smartphone mobile application example, and we highlight its potential to drive architectural decisions through sensitivity analysis. The achieved results are compared with those obtained by two groups of (human) maintainers composed of experts and non-experts with respect to the system and the execution environment, and we show that SHEPhERd outperforms the human judgment-based approaches.
Keywords: Software evolution; Software cost; Software reliability; Software performance; Optimization model

Andrea Bosin, Nicoletta Dessì, Barbara Pes,
Extending the SOA paradigm to e-Science environments,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 27, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 20-31,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2010.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X10001251)
Abstract: In the business world, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) has recently gained popularity as a new approach to integrate business applications. In a similar way, scientific workflows can accomplish the automation of large-scale e-Science applications. However, the use of workflows in scientific environments differs from that in business environments. Scientific workflows need to handle large amounts of data, deal with heterogeneous and distributed resources such as the Grid, and require specialized software applications that are written in diverse programming languages, most of which are not popular in business environments. In this paper, we analyze the preparedness and the shortcomings of the SOA paradigm in addressing the needs of e-Science and the extent to which this can be done. The paper identifies the characteristics of a Virtual Organization providing scientific services, and presents a model placing particular emphasis on BPEL processes as a mean for supporting the interaction with Web Services. We discuss the challenges encountered in the seamless integration of BPEL processes within an e-Science infrastructure and we propose a set of complementary infrastructural services. By providing business utilities and automation technology founded on Web Services, infrastructural services cooperate with BPEL in ensuring on-demand resource provisioning for the execution of scientific workflows, while addressing some critical issues such as security, access control and monitoring. Furthermore, the paper presents our experience in adopting the proposed approach within a collaborative environment for bioinformatics. To illustrate how a scientific experiment can be formalized and executed, we focus on micro-array data processing, a field that will be increasingly common in applications of machine learning to molecular biology.
Keywords: e-Science; Distributed systems; Workflow management; Web Services

Richard McClatchey, Andrew Branson, Ashiq Anjum, Peter Bloodsworth, Irfan Habib, Kamran Munir, Jetendr Shamdasani, Kamran Soomro,
Providing traceability for neuroimaging analyses,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 82, Issue 9,
2013,
Pages 882-894,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2013.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505613001111)
Abstract: Introduction
With the increasingly digital nature of biomedical data and as the complexity of analyses in medical research increases, the need for accurate information capture, traceability and accessibility has become crucial to medical researchers in the pursuance of their research goals. Grid- or Cloud-based technologies, often based on so-called Service Oriented Architectures (SOA), are increasingly being seen as viable solutions for managing distributed data and algorithms in the bio-medical domain. For neuroscientific analyses, especially those centred on complex image analysis, traceability of processes and datasets is essential but up to now this has not been captured in a manner that facilitates collaborative study.
Purpose and method
Few examples exist, of deployed medical systems based on Grids that provide the traceability of research data needed to facilitate complex analyses and none have been evaluated in practice. Over the past decade, we have been working with mammographers, paediatricians and neuroscientists in three generations of projects to provide the data management and provenance services now required for 21st century medical research. This paper outlines the finding of a requirements study and a resulting system architecture for the production of services to support neuroscientific studies of biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.
Results
The paper proposes a software infrastructure and services that provide the foundation for such support. It introduces the use of the CRISTAL software to provide provenance management as one of a number of services delivered on a SOA, deployed to manage neuroimaging projects that have been studying biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.
Conclusions
In the neuGRID and N4U projects a Provenance Service has been delivered that captures and reconstructs the workflow information needed to facilitate researchers in conducting neuroimaging analyses. The software enables neuroscientists to track the evolution of workflows and datasets. It also tracks the outcomes of various analyses and provides provenance traceability throughout the lifecycle of their studies. As the Provenance Service has been designed to be generic it can be applied across the medical domain as a reusable tool for supporting medical researchers thus providing communities of researchers for the first time with the necessary tools to conduct widely distributed collaborative programmes of medical analysis.
Keywords: Provenance data; Analysis tracking; Neuroimaging; Grid computing; Service-oriented architectures

Songshan Yue, Min Chen, Yongning Wen, Guonian Lu,
Service-oriented model-encapsulation strategy for sharing and integrating heterogeneous geo-analysis models in an open web environment,
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing,
Volume 114,
2016,
Pages 258-273,
ISSN 0924-2716,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2015.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271615002440)
Abstract: Earth environment is extremely complicated and constantly changing; thus, it is widely accepted that the use of a single geo-analysis model cannot accurately represent all details when solving complex geo-problems. Over several years of research, numerous geo-analysis models have been developed. However, a collaborative barrier between model providers and model users still exists. The development of cloud computing has provided a new and promising approach for sharing and integrating geo-analysis models across an open web environment. To share and integrate these heterogeneous models, encapsulation studies should be conducted that are aimed at shielding original execution differences to create services which can be reused in the web environment. Although some model service standards (such as Web Processing Service (WPS) and Geo Processing Workflow (GPW)) have been designed and developed to help researchers construct model services, various problems regarding model encapsulation remain. (1) The descriptions of geo-analysis models are complicated and typically require rich-text descriptions and case-study illustrations, which are difficult to fully represent within a single web request (such as the GetCapabilities and DescribeProcess operations in the WPS standard). (2) Although Web Service technologies can be used to publish model services, model users who want to use a geo-analysis model and copy the model service into another computer still encounter problems (e.g., they cannot access the model deployment dependencies information). This study presents a strategy for encapsulating geo-analysis models to reduce problems encountered when sharing models between model providers and model users and supports the tasks with different web service standards (e.g., the WPS standard). A description method for heterogeneous geo-analysis models is studied. Based on the model description information, the methods for encapsulating the model-execution program to model services and for describing model-service deployment information are also included in the proposed strategy. Hence, the model-description interface, model-execution interface and model-deployment interface are studied to help model providers and model users more easily share, reuse and integrate geo-analysis models in an open web environment. Finally, a prototype system is established, and the WPS standard is employed as an example to verify the capability and practicability of the model-encapsulation strategy. The results show that it is more convenient for modellers to share and integrate heterogeneous geo-analysis models in cloud computing platforms.
Keywords: Geo-analysis models; Sharing; Integration; Encapsulation; Open web environment

Jonathan L. Goodall, Bella F. Robinson, Anthony M. Castronova,
Modeling water resource systems using a service-oriented computing paradigm,
Environmental Modelling & Software,
Volume 26, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 573-582,
ISSN 1364-8152,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2010.11.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815210003178)
Abstract: Service-oriented computing is a software engineering paradigm that views complex software systems as an interconnected collection of distributed computational components. Each component has a defined web service interface that allows it to be loosely-coupled with client applications. The service-oriented paradigm presents an attractive way of modeling multidisciplinary water resource systems because it allows a diverse community of scientists and engineers to work independently on components of a larger modeling system. While a service-oriented paradigm has been successfully applied for integrating water resource data, this paper considers service-oriented computing as an approach for integrating water resource models. We present an interface design for exposing water resource models as web services and demonstrate how it can be used to simulate a rainfall/runoff event within a watershed system. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using service-oriented computing for modeling water resource systems, and conclude with future work needed to advance the application of service-oriented computing for modeling water resource systems.
Keywords: Integrated modeling; Systems analysis; Web services; Water management

G. Moltó, V. Hernández, J.M. Alonso,
A service-oriented WSRF-based architecture for metascheduling on computational Grids,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 24, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 317-328,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2007.05.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X07000891)
Abstract: This paper describes a Grid service developed over the Globus Toolkit 4, which provides multi-user resource brokering on computational Grids. Both the architecture and implementation details are covered, emphasising the usage of the WSRF specifications and GSI-based security to create a generic, secure and interoperable metascheduler. In addition, we also describe the development of a graphical client-side application that provides an ubiquitous access to the metascheduler service. This work is currently being employed in production for the execution of a biomedical application that simulates the electrical activity of cardiac tissues.
Keywords: Grid computing; Metascheduling; Globus Toolkit; WSRF; Service-oriented architectures

G. Veiga, J.N. Pires, K. Nilsson,
ON THE USE OF SERVICE ORIENTED SOFTWARE PLATFORMS FOR INDUSTRIAL ROBOTIC CELLS,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 40, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 109-115,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661234,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20070523-3-ES-4908.00019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667015403350)
Abstract: The integration of different robot automation technologies, with the aim for reusing available production solutions, is a major obstacle for deployment of low-cost components into productive (high-performance) systems. Technologies demanding high processing power, like machine vision or voice recognition systems, are normally easy to program but require proprietary languages and platforms, which constitutes an important problem during communications and setup. Instead of the current need for trained specialist, in particular flexible manufacturing in SMEs call for solutions that are easy easy to use and (re)configure. One attempt in that direction is the service-oriented architecture (SOA) approach, which here is accomplished by the use of Universal Plug-and-Play (UPnP) technologies and confronted with real robot application demand represented by an experimental manufacturing cell. Contributions include the way of building software applications to program manufacturing cells whose building blocks are represented by UPnP devices. Such devices encapsulate both manufacturing equipment and interaction methods. The latter is exemplified by a speech recognition system, for which a tool for automatic generation of UPnP devices based on the information contained in speech recognition XML grammars is presented. Experiences form experiments confirms the desired efficiency and simplicity when setting up advanced manufacturing equipment.
Keywords: Intelligent Manufacturing Systems; Robot control; Computer communication networks; Concurrent Architectures; Flexible Automation

Rajesh Kalyanam, Lan Zhao, Carol Song, Larry Biehl, Derrick Kearney, I. Luk Kim, Jaewoo Shin, Nelson Villoria, Venkatesh Merwade,
MyGeoHub—A sustainable and evolving geospatial science gateway,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
2018,
,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17310087)
Abstract: Science gateways are an integral component of modern collaborative research. They find widespread adoption by research groups to share data, code and tools both amongst collaborators on a project and the broader community. However, not unlike research groups, gateways too, face the vagaries of research funding often resulting in a bleak outlook for their maintenance beyond the original project’s conclusion. We present a sustainability model based on the HUBzero cyberinfrastructure platform that enables multiple research projects to share a single science gateway allowing for their maintenance even after the original funding source has run out. This model brings with it certain other advantages as well; general improvements to the gateway apply to all hosted projects, similar requirements across projects can often be abstracted into new general purpose capabilities for the gateway which feed back into all hosted projects. Such newly developed capabilities can also foster additional research aiding in new funding proposals that can revitalize and jumpstart hosted dormant projects. We describe a specific instance of a HUBzero science gateway, MyGeoHub, that successfully employs this sustainability model to host several geospatial research projects. We also illustrate the specific advantages of this sustainability model in the case of the MyGeoHub gateway that have led to the development of general-purpose data management and visualization software modules that have found use beyond MyGeoHub.
Keywords: Science gateways; Cyberinfrastructure; Geospatial; Sustainability

Anne M.J. Smith, Robert A. Paton,
Embedding enterprise education: A service based transferable skills framework,
The International Journal of Management Education,
Volume 12, Issue 3,
2014,
Pages 550-560,
ISSN 1472-8117,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijme.2014.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1472811714000068)
Abstract: Enterprise and entrepreneurship education, according to government reports, should be embedded within Higher Education (HE) however, although many HEI's are experienced in programme led initiatives, they have less knowledge of cross-school and campus wide provision. This paper argues that an alternative approach, based upon embedding transferable skills into the curriculum, produces more consistent and sustainable results than policy led enterprise programme initiatives, especially when informed by a systematic and integrated transferable skills framework. This paper analyses the provision and nature of the transferable skills associated with four, highly successful, enterprise programmes. Using content analysis and a thematic coding system, existing programme documents are analysed to generate a service based framework of transferable skills that can be embedded across institutions. The findings suggest that resource sensitive initiatives are problematic with regard to maintaining sustainable learning programmes and that an embedded transferable skills approach offers greater consistency. We conclude with a framework of transferable skills informed by empirical research, designed to embed such skills across the curriculum, thus shaping the 21st century graduate. The service based framework is an institutional tool for programmes and curriculum design beyond the business school and offers an alternative approach to embedding enterprise education.
Keywords: Enterprise education; Transferable skills; Employability; 21st century graduate

Eduardo Cañete, Jaime Chen, Manuel Díaz, Luis Llopis, Bartolomé Rubio,
A service-oriented approach to facilitate WSAN application development,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 9, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 430-452,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2010.08.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870510001320)
Abstract: Due to the complex nature of developing Wireless Sensor and Actor Network (WSAN) applications it is obvious that new frameworks, tools, middleware and higher-level abstractions are needed to make the task of the developers easier. Depending on the WSAN system we want to develop, different characteristics must be taken into account but, perhaps, some of the most important are the capacity to add real-time constraints, the QoS and, of course energy saving. Our proposal USEME is a service-oriented and component-based framework which allows the easy combination of macro-programming and node-centric programming to develop real-time and efficient applications over WSANs. USEME allows the specification of real-time constraints between services, permits the use of groups to structure the network and is platform independent. Two prototypes (Imote2.Net and SunSPOT) have been implemented and several performance tests have been carried out.
Keywords: Middleware; Wireless Sensor and Actor Network; Service Oriented Architecture; High-level programming; Framework

Einar Broch Johnsen, Olaf Owe, Dave Clarke, Joakim Bjørk,
A formal model of service-oriented dynamic object groups,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volumes 115–116,
2016,
Pages 3-22,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2014.11.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642314005553)
Abstract: Services are autonomous, self-describing, technology-neutral software units that can be published, discovered, queried, and composed into software applications at runtime. Designing and composing software services to form applications or composite services, require abstractions beyond those found in typical object-oriented programming languages. This paper explores service-oriented abstractions such as service adaptation, discovery, and querying in an object-oriented setting. We develop a formal model of dynamic object-oriented groups which offer services to their environment. These groups fit directly into the object-oriented paradigm in the sense that they can be dynamically created, they have an identity, and they can receive method calls. In contrast to objects, groups are not used for structuring code. A group exports its services through interfaces and relies on objects to implement these services. Objects may join or leave different groups. Groups may dynamically export new interfaces, they support service discovery, and they can be queried at runtime for the interfaces they support. We define an operational semantics and a static type system for this model of dynamic object groups, and show that well-typed programs do not cause method-not-understood errors at runtime.
Keywords: Object orientation; Object groups; Service orientation; Multithreading; Concurrency; Types; Semantics; Type safety

Edson Murakami, Antonio M. Saraiva, Luiz C.M. Ribeiro, Carlos E. Cugnasca, Andre R. Hirakawa, Pedro L.P. Correa,
An infrastructure for the development of distributed service-oriented information systems for precision agriculture,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
Volume 58, Issue 1,
2007,
Pages 37-48,
ISSN 0168-1699,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2006.12.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169907000609)
Abstract: Precision agriculture (PA) involves using electronic technology to collect a large amount of data in the field for use in site-specific crop management. Major issues in the implementation of PA include interpreting the huge amount of data collected, understanding the causes of variability, and being able to propose sound strategies for field variability management. To help address these issues, a software infrastructure is proposed. It adopts concepts from software engineering with the aim of providing a basis for the development of information systems for PA based on open platforms, and on data communication and software interoperability standards. The infrastructure has two main components and a reference architecture for the development of distributed service-oriented systems. This paper presents and discusses the infrastructure and its components and presents a prototype application named yield data filtering, which filters yield monitor data and was developed as a proof of concept.
Keywords: Information systems; Web services; XML; Precision agriculture; Infrastructure

Malinda Kapuruge, Jun Han, Alan Colman,
1 - Introduction,
Editor(s): Malinda Kapuruge, Jun Han, Alan Colman,
Service Orchestration As Organization,
Elsevier,
2014,
Pages 3-19,
ISBN 9780128009383,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-800938-3.00001-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128009383000011)
Abstract: Business organisations have been increasingly adopting business process management (BPM) as a part of their core business strategy due to benefits such as improved business–information technology (IT) alignment and optimised operational efficiency. Service-oriented architecture (SOA) has emerged as an architecture style that provides a loosely coupled, reusable and standards-based way to integrate distributed systems. Both SOA and BPM are mutually complementary development approaches for enterprise architectures. By combining the benefits of these complementary developments, service orchestration approaches are providing methodologies and technologies to enable the creation of integrated IT systems that meet the needs of rapidly changing enterprises and market places.
Keywords: BPM; adaptability; SOA; orchestration; cloud computing; SaaS

Bruno Costa, Paulo F. Pires, Flávia C. Delicato, Paulo Merson,
Evaluating REST architectures—Approach, tooling and guidelines,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 112,
2016,
Pages 156-180,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2015.09.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121215002150)
Abstract: Architectural decisions determine the ability of the implemented system to satisfy functional and quality attribute requirements. The Representational State Transfer (REST) architectural style has been extensively used recently for integrating services and applications. Its adoption to build SOA-based distributed systems brings several benefits, but also poses new challenges and risks. Particularly important among those risks are failures to effectively address quality attribute requirements such as security, reliability, and performance. A proved efficient technique to identify and help mitigate those risks is the architecture evaluation. In this paper we propose an approach, tooling, and guidelines to aid architecture evaluation activities in REST-based systems. These guidelines can be systematically used along with evaluation methods to reason about design considerations and tradeoffs. To demonstrate how the guidelines can help architecture evaluators, we present a proof of concept describing how to use the guidelines in an ATAM (Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method) evaluation. We also present the results of a survey conducted with industry specialists who have performed architecture evaluations in real world REST-based systems in order to gauge the suitability and utility of the proposed guidelines. Finally, the paper describes a Web tool developed to facilitate the use of the evaluation guidelines.
Keywords: Software architecture evaluation; Scenario-based evaluation guidelines; REST

Aicha Ben Jrad, Sami Bhiri, Samir Tata,
STRATFram: A framework for describing and evaluating elasticity strategies for service-based business processes in the cloud,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
2018,
,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.10.055.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X18306125)
Abstract: In the recent years, growing attention has been paid to the concept of Cloud Computing as a new computing paradigm for executing and handling operations/processes in an efficient and cost-effective way. Cloud Computing’s elasticity and its flexibility in service delivery have been the most important features behind this attention which encourage companies to migrate their operation/processes to the cloud to ensure the required QoS while using resources and reduce their expenses. Elasticity management has been considered as a pivotal issue among IT community that works on finding the right tradeoffs between QoS levels and operational costs by developing novel methods and mechanisms. However, controlling process elasticity and defining non-trivial elasticity strategies are challenging issues. Also, despite the growing attention paid to the cloud and its elasticity property in particular, there is still a lack of solutions that support the evaluation of elasticity strategies used to ensure the elasticity of processes at service-level. In this paper, we present a framework for describing and evaluating elasticity strategies for Service-based Business Processes (SBP), called StratFram. It is composed of a set of domain-specific languages designed to generalize the use of the framework and to facilitate the description of evaluation elements that are needed to evaluate elasticity strategies before using them in real cloud environment. Using StratFram, SBP holders are allowed to define: (i) an elasticity model with specific elasticity capabilities on which they want to define and evaluate their elasticity strategies, (ii) a SBP model for which the elasticity strategies will be defined and evaluated, (iii) a set of elasticity strategies based on the elasticity capabilities of the defined elasticity model and for the provided SBP model, and (iv) a simulation configuration which identifies simulation properties/elements. The evaluation of elasticity strategies consists in providing a set of plots that allows the analysis and the comparison of strategies. Our contributions and developments provide Cloud tenants with facilities to choose elasticity strategies that fit to their business processes and usage behaviors.
Keywords: Service-based business process; Elasticity strategies; Evaluation; Elasticity model; Cloud computing

Nane Kratzke, Peter-Christian Quint,
Understanding cloud-native applications after 10 years of cloud computing - A systematic mapping study,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 126,
2017,
Pages 1-16,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2017.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121217300018)
Abstract: It is common sense that cloud-native applications (CNA) are intentionally designed for the cloud. Although this understanding can be broadly used it does not guide and explain what a cloud-native application exactly is. The term “cloud-native” was used quite frequently in birthday times of cloud computing (2006) which seems somehow obvious nowadays. But the term disappeared almost completely. Suddenly and in the last years the term is used again more and more frequently and shows increasing momentum. This paper summarizes the outcomes of a systematic mapping study analyzing research papers covering “cloud-native” topics, research questions and engineering methodologies. We summarize research focuses and trends dealing with cloud-native application engineering approaches. Furthermore, we provide a definition for the term “cloud-native application” which takes all findings, insights of analyzed publications and already existing and well-defined terminology into account.
Keywords: Cloud-native application; CNA; Systematic mapping study; Elastic platform; Microservice; Self service; Pattern; Softwareization

Jack C.P. Cheng, Kincho H. Law, Hans Bjornsson, Albert Jones, Ram Sriram,
A service oriented framework for construction supply chain integration,
Automation in Construction,
Volume 19, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 245-260,
ISSN 0926-5805,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2009.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092658050900154X)
Abstract: The benefits of integrating and coordinating supply chain partners have been well recognized in many industries. In the construction industry, supply chain integration is technically challenging due to the high fragmentation of the industry. Information, applications, and services are loosely distributed among participants with a wide range of hardware and software capabilities. In addition, participants are often unwilling to share information because the temporary nature of construction projects often impedes the establishment of trust. A secure, modular, and flexible system that can aggregate scattered information and share that information across applications is, therefore, highly desirable. We have prototyped a service oriented, web-based system that can provide both these capabilities. Called the SC Collaborator, this system facilitates the flexible coordination of construction supply chains by leveraging web services, web portal, and open source technologies. These technologies enable the SC Collaborator system to provide an economical and customizable tool for integrating supply chain partners with a wide range of computing capabilities. This paper describes the overall architecture and the features of the system. Two example scenarios are included to demonstrate the potential of SC Collaborator in integrating and managing information from project partners. The first scenario is an e-Procurement example whereas the second is a rescheduling scenario based on the data from a completed project in Sweden.
Keywords: Construction supply chain integration; Service oriented architecture; Web-based collaborative system; Web services; Open source

Daniele D’Agostino, Luca Roverelli, Gabriele Zereik, Giuseppe La Rocca, Andrea De Luca, Ruben Salvaterra, Andrea Belfiore, Gianni Lisini, Giovanni Novara, Andrea Tiengo,
A science gateway for Exploring the X-ray Transient and variable sky using EGI Federated Cloud,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
2018,
,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.12.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17310051)
Abstract: Modern soft X-ray observatories can yield unique insights into time domain astrophysics, and a huge amount of information is stored – and largely unexploited – in data archives. Like a treasure-hunt, the EXTraS project harvested the hitherto unexplored temporal domain information buried in the serendipitous data collected by the European Photon Imaging Camera instrument onboard the ESA XMM-Newton, in 16 years of observations. All results have been released to the scientific community, together with new software analysis tools. This paper presents the architecture of the EXTraS science gateway, that has the goal to provide the software through a web based portal using the EGI Federated Cloud infrastructure. The main focus is on the light software architecture of the portal and on the technological insights for an effective use of the EGI ecosystem.
Keywords: Science gateways; Microservices; Astrophysics

Vincent Fourmond, Kevin Hoke, Hendrik A. Heering, Carole Baffert, Fanny Leroux, Patrick Bertrand, Christophe Léger,
SOAS: A free program to analyze electrochemical data and other one-dimensional signals,
Bioelectrochemistry,
Volume 76, Issues 1–2,
2009,
Pages 141-147,
ISSN 1567-5394,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioelechem.2009.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567539409000450)
Abstract: This paper describes an open source program called SOAS, which we developed with the aim of analysing one-dimensional signals. It offers a large set of commands for handling voltammetric and chronoamperometric data, including smoothing signals, differentiation, subtracting baselines, fitting current responses, measuring limiting currents, and searching for peak positions. Although emphasis is on the analysis of electrochemical signals, particularly protein film voltammetry data, SOAS may also prove useful for processing spectra. This free program is available by download from the Internet, and can be installed on computers running any flavor of Unix or Linux, most easily on MacOS X.
Keywords: Open source software; Electron transfer; Protein film voltammetry; Data analysis

Adel Ghannam,
Business integration unit (BIU) adapter for industrial global value chain on the web,
Journal of Electrical Systems and Information Technology,
Volume 3, Issue 1,
2016,
Pages 127-140,
ISSN 2314-7172,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jesit.2016.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2314717216300137)
Abstract: Today's manufacturing enterprises rarely live in isolation. They need to be connected in order to create products from which a group of enterprises, called global-value-chain (GVC), can derive value. Service-oriented architecture (SOA) and event-driven architecture (EDA) are two different paradigms that address complex integration challenges. Enterprise service bus (ESB) allows for the implementation of both the SOA and the EDA concepts. This paper addresses the development of an enterprise service bus (ESB) to grant the operation of GVC. A proposed business-integrator-unit (BIU) is designed to be plugged in each enterprise system. The BIU contains a “business collaboration map configurator” that allows real time allocation of roles to members’ enterprises.
Keywords: Global value chain; GVC; Process integration; Interoperability; UML model; ESB

Robert Lagerström, Pontus Johnson, David Höök,
Architecture analysis of enterprise systems modifiability – Models, analysis, and validation,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 83, Issue 8,
2010,
Pages 1387-1403,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2010.02.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121210000518)
Abstract: Enterprise architecture (EA) models can be used in order to increase the general understanding of enterprise systems and to perform various kinds of analysis. This paper presents instantiated architectural models based on a metamodel for enterprise systems modifiability analysis, i.e. for assessing the cost of making changes to enterprise-wide systems. The instantiated architectural models detailed are based on 21 software change projects conducted at four large Nordic companies. Probabilistic relational models (PRMs) are used for formalizing the EA analysis approach. PRMs enable the combination of regular entity-relationship modeling aspects with means to perform enterprise architecture analysis under uncertainty. The modifiability metamodel employed in the analysis is validated with survey and workshop data (in total 110 experts were surveyed) and with the data collected in the 21 software change projects. Validation indicates that the modifiability metamodel contains the appropriate set of elements. It also indicates that the metamodel produces estimates within a 75% accuracy in 87% of the time and has a mean accuracy of 88% (when considering projects of 2000 man-hours or more).
Keywords: Enterprise architecture; Software change cost estimation; Software modifiability; Metamodel; Probabilistic relational models

Sutanu Kumar Chandra, Sourangshu Mukhopadhyay,
An all-optical approach of implementing a different kind of phase encoded XOR and XNOR logic operations with the help of four wave mixing in SOA,
Optik,
Volume 124, Issue 6,
2013,
Pages 505-507,
ISSN 0030-4026,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2011.12.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402612000587)
Abstract: In last few years semiconductor optical amplifier (SOA) played an important role in the development of all optical switches due to its very fast response. An all optical XOR and XNOR logic gate with the use of four wave mixing character of light in SOA is proposed and discussed its operation here. A completely different kind of phase encoding has been employed in the scheme for the implementation of the logic gates. The phase difference value between a pair of beams with the same frequency has been used to develop the encoded/decoded bits. This type of phase encoding is completely free from the non-linearity of the optical fiber through which it is propagating. This process can exhibit a very high speed operation (far above GHz limit) due to phase encoding technique as well as the high speed optical switching action, based on four-wave mixing character of semiconductor optical amplifier is used.
Keywords: FWM; Phase encoding; Logic gates; SOA

David Loshin,
Chapter 12 - MDM and the Functional Services Layer,
Editor(s): David Loshin,
In The MK/OMG Press,
Master Data Management,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2009,
Pages 217-235,
ISBN 9780123742254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374225-4.00012-6.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123742254000126)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
The value of master data management (MDM) does not lie solely in the integration of data. The ability to consolidate application functionality (e.g., new customer creation) using a services layer that supplements multiple application approaches will provide additional value across the existing and future applications. This chapter covers the functional application services layer. There is a symbiotic relationship between MDM and a services-oriented architecture (SOA): a services-oriented approach to business solution development relies on the existence of a master data repository, and the success of an MDM program depends on the ability to deploy and use master object access and manipulation services. Employing a services-based approach serves multiple purposes within the MDM program. As the program is launched and developed, the use of multiple service layers simplifies both the implementation of the capabilities supporting the data object life cycle and the transition from the diffused distributed application architecture into the consolidated master application infrastructure. The flexibility provided by an SOA triggers the fundamental organizational changes necessary to use the shared information asset in its most effective manner. By driving application development from the perspective of the business instead of as a sequence of procedural operations, the organization can exploit the master data object set in relation to all business operations and the ways that those objects drive business performance.

Christine Mayr, Uwe Zdun, Schahram Dustdar,
View-based model-driven architecture for enhancing maintainability of data access services,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 70, Issue 9,
2011,
Pages 794-819,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2011.05.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X1100067X)
Abstract: In modern service-oriented architectures, database access is done by a special type of services, the so-called data access services (DAS). Though, particularly in data-intensive applications, using and developing DAS are very common today, the link between the DAS and their implementation, e.g. a layer of data access objects (DAOs) encapsulating the database queries, still is not sufficiently elaborated, yet. As a result, as the number of DAS grows, finding the desired DAS for reuse and/or associated documentation can become an impossible task. In this paper we focus on bridging this gap between the DAS and their implementation by presenting a view-based, model-driven data access architecture (VMDA) managing models of the DAS, DAOs and database queries in a queryable manner. Our models support tailored views of different stakeholders and are scalable with all types of DAS implementations. In this paper we show that our view-based and model driven architecture approach can enhance software development productivity and maintainability by improving DAS documentation. Moreover, our VMDA opens a wide range of applications such as evaluating DAS usage for DAS performance optimization. Furthermore, we provide tool support and illustrate the applicability of our VMDA in a large-scale case study. Finally, we quantitatively prove that our approach performs with acceptable response times.
Keywords: Data Access Service; DAS; SOA; Service; DAO; Data Access Object; Repository; Model-driven; MDD; Data model; Data; Database; RDBMS; Tooling; Architecture; Ecore; ORM; View-based; View; EMF; GIS; WFS; Web Feature Services; Geographic; Spatial; Non-spatial; Features; Data access; Data; Model-driven architecture; Views

Liyin Shen, Ya Wu, Chenyang Shuai, Weisheng Lu, K.W. Chau, Xi Chen,
Analysis on the evolution of low carbon city from process characteristic perspective,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 187,
2018,
Pages 348-360,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.03.190.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652618308618)
Abstract: Developing low carbon city is a global strategy for achieving carbon emission reduction. However, the evolution process of becoming a low carbon city remains unexplored, which is not conductive to the promotion of low carbon city. This study examines the evolution of low carbon city from process characteristic perspective. The evolution processes are analyzed by establishing the relationship between city's economic development and carbon emission performance. By adopting Kaya Identity method, city's emission characteristics in the process of promoting low carbon city are decomposed into energy structure, energy intensity, economic output, industrial structure and population. The performances of these five characteristics in different evolution processes are analyzed. By using the data collected from case cities of Singapore, Beijing, and New York, the evolution process and the corresponding emission characteristics of these cities have been investigated. The key findings from this study are: (1) a city successively goes through three turning points (TP) and four processes (P-Ⅰ, P-Ⅱ, P-Ⅲ, P-Ⅳ) to shift from carbon intensive to low carbon. (2) Performances of the five emission characteristics for cities vary significantly between the four evolution processes. The findings of this study help city governments understand the process they position in and the gap between their emission performances and their goals of becoming a low carbon city. This understanding allows the decision-makers to take proper emission reduction measures which shall incorporate city's emission characteristics in the corresponding process.
Keywords: Low carbon city; Evolution process; Process characteristic; Emission characteristics; Environmental Kuznets curve (EKC); Kaya identity

Ian McKeachie, Ljubo Vlacic,
Using A Commercially Successful Empirical Enterprise Framework : Deterministic Service Oriented Architecture Service Levels,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 41, Issue 2,
2008,
Pages 13869-13873,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661005,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20080706-5-KR-1001.02348.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667016412140)
Abstract: This paper presents a summary of an integrated empirical enterprise framework and an aspect of its practical use. Development of the empirical framework, over some ten years, has been driven by management strategic goals and the need for successful commercial outcomes. What is offered as novel is the integrated empirical framework approach for a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). The approach uses service interfaces’ definitions at several logical levels within the Enterprise with mapping to component services thus allowing deterministic Service Level Agreement derivation using Failure Mode Effects Analysis (FMEA). As the empirical framework can incorporate arbitrary quantitative metrics, the technique allows management of risks with accurate budgeting, verifiable cost benefit design and comparison of proposed changes to existing enterprises on a cost benefit basis. Emphasis on integration of strategic frameworks and management paradigms with application and SOA components has been found to be critical to commercial success.

Mark F. Hornick, Erik Marcadé, Sunil Venkayala,
Chapter 11 - Web Services,
Editor(s): Mark F. Hornick, Erik Marcadé, Sunil Venkayala,
In The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems,
Java Data Mining,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2007,
Pages 273-297,
ISBN 9780123704528,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012370452-8/50037-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123704528500372)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter explores Web services and service-oriented architecture (SOA) and explains how Java Data Mining (JDM) vendors can enable JDMWS using the JDM application programming interface (API) and J2EE platforms. Web services are evolving as the key technology that enables software application functionality as services, which can be discovered and used by other applications over a network. Users developing service-oriented applications and integrating existing applications are becoming increasingly interested in Web services. This results from the evolution of multiple standards, such as simple object access protocol (SOAP) and Web service description language (WSDL) that are unanimously supported by the software industry, and the increased availability of tools and software platforms, such as J2EE and .Net, that ease the development of Web service applications. The JDM standard defines Web services that complement the API. These vendor-neutral Web services fulfill the strategic objective of providing broad architectural choices for application architects to integrate data mining functionality.

C.W. Liu, X.X. Jin, L.S. Li,
A web services-based multidisciplinary design optimization framework for complex engineering systems with uncertainties,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 65, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 585-597,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2014.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361514000190)
Abstract: With the increased complexity of complex engineering systems (CES), more and more disciplines, coupled relationships, work processes, design data, design knowledge and uncertainties are involved. Currently, the MDO is facing unprecedented challenges especially in dealing with the CES by different specialists dispersed geographically on heterogeneous platforms with different analysis tools. The product design data integration and data sharing among the participants and the workflow optimization hamper the development and applications of MDO in enterprises seriously. Therefore, a multi-hierarchical integrated product design data model (MiPDM) supporting the MDO in web environment and a web services-based MDO framework considering aleatory and epistemic uncertainties are proposed in this paper. With the enabling technologies including web services, ontology, workflow, agent, XML, and evidence theory, the proposed framework enables the designers geographically dispersed to work collaboratively in the MDO environment. The ontology-based workflow enables the logical reasoning of MDO to be processed dynamically. Finally, a proof-of-concept prototype system is developed based on Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE) and an example of supersonic business jet is demonstrated to verify the web services-based MDO framework.
Keywords: Web services; Multidisciplinary design optimization; Integrated data model; Workflow; Complex engineering system; Uncertainty

M. Marcos, E. Estévez, C. Jouvray, A. Kung,
An Approach to use MDE in Dynamically Reconfigurable Networked Embedded SOAs,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 44, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 14946-14951,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661937,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20110828-6-IT-1002.02599.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667016460313)
Abstract: Abstract
Integration, reuse, flexibility and adaptability are some of the characteristics demanded by current complex embedded applications in order to adapt to a rapidly changing and competitive market. Besides, commonly they must be distributed in open and heterogeneous environments and able to be flexible enough in order to cope with dynamic changes of its environment (dynamic reconfiguration). Model Driven Engineering (MDE) is a software development methodology that promotes an intensive use of models, or abstractions, to cope with the complexity inherent to the application design. This paper proposes a modelling approach, in the context of the ARTEMIS iLAND project, for networked embedded service oriented applications, having specific dynamic reconfiguration requirements assuring an optimum usage of the limited system resources. The modelling approach focuses on the definition of models and model transformations, from the application requirements to code generation, emphasizing dynamic reconfiguration of the application.
Keywords: Model Driven Engineering; Networked Embedded Systems; Dynamic Reconfiguration

Matjaz B. Juric,
WSDL and BPEL extensions for Event Driven Architecture,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 52, Issue 10,
2010,
Pages 1023-1043,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910000789)
Abstract: Context
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Event Driven Architecture (EDA) are two acknowledged architectures for the development of business applications and information systems, which have evolved separately over the years.
Objective
This paper proposes a solution for extending the SOA/Web Services Platform Architecture (WSPA) with support for business events and EDA concepts. Our solution enables services to act as event producers and event consumers. It also enables event-driven service orchestrations in business processes.
Method
Based on a comparison of SOA and EDA, we have identified and designed the required extensions to enable support for events and event-driven process orchestration in WSPA.
Results
We propose specific extensions to WSDL and BPEL, and a flexible XML representation of the event payload data. We introduce event sinks, sources, and triggers to WSDL. We extend BPEL with new activities to trigger and catch events, and extend fault and event handlers, variables, and correlation properties to accommodate events.
Conclusion
As a proof-of-concept, we have developed a prototype implementation and assessed the extensions on three pilot projects. We have shown that our proposed extensions work on real projects and that combining event-driven and service-oriented semantics makes sense in many business applications and can considerably reduce the development effort.
Keywords: Event; EDA (Event Driven Architecture); SOA (Service Oriented Architecture); WSPA (Web Services Platform Architecture); BPEL (Business Process Execution Language); WSDL (Web Service Description Language)

Nebojša Taušan, Jouni Markkula, Pasi Kuvaja, Markku Oivo,
Choreography in the embedded systems domain: A systematic literature review,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 91,
2017,
Pages 82-101,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2017.06.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584917304469)
Abstract: Context
Software companies that develop their products on a basis of service-oriented architecture can expect various improvements as a result of choreography. Current choreography practices, however, are not yet used extensively in the embedded systems domain even though service-oriented architecture is increasingly used in this domain.
Objective
The objective of this study is to identify current features of the use of choreography in the embedded systems domain for practitioners and researchers by systematically analysing current developments in the scientific literature, strategies for choreography adaption, choreography specification and execution types, and implicit assumptions about choreography.
Method
To fulfil this objective, a systematic literature review of scientific publications that focus on the use of choreography in the embedded systems domain was carried out. After a systematic screening of 6823 publications, 48 were selected as primary studies and analysed using thematic synthesis.
Results
The main results of the study showed that there are differences in how choreography is used in embedded and non-embedded systems domain. In the embedded systems domain, it is used to capture the service interactions of a single organisation, while, for example, in the enterprise systems domain it captures the service interactions among multiple organisations. Additionally, the results indicate that the use of choreography can lead to improvements in system performance and that the languages that are used for choreography modelling in the embedded systems domain are insufficiently expressive to capture the complexities that are typical in this domain.
Conclusion
The selection of the key information resources and the identified gaps in the existing literature offer researchers a foundation for further investigations and contribute to the advancement of the use of choreography in the embedded systems domain. The study results facilitate the work of practitioners by allowing them to make informed decisions about the applicability of choreography in their organisations.
Keywords: Choreography; Service-oriented architecture; Embedded systems; Systematic literature review

Anu Antony, Jyothi P. Ramachandran, Resmi M. Ramakrishnan, Poovathinthodiyil Raveendran,
Sizing of paper with sucrose octaacetate using liquid and supercritical carbon dioxide as a green alternative medium,
Journal of CO2 Utilization,
Volume 28,
2018,
Pages 306-312,
ISSN 2212-9820,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcou.2018.10.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212982018303512)
Abstract: The development of low cost, non-fluorous, CO2-philic materials such as sugar acetates have opened up new opportunities for enabling the utilization of liquid and supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO2) as a green solvent platform for industrial processes by virtue of the high solubility of these materials in CO2. In the present work, we report the sizing of paper surface with sucrose octaacetate (SOA) using this alternative solvent system. Characterization of the bare and sized paper samples has been carried out using spectroscopic and surface imaging techniques. The studies reveal a smooth and uniform coating of the surface with SOA. Contact angle measurements and sorption studies show that the SOA-coated paper surface is hydrophobic. The mechanical properties of the SOA-coated paper are observed to be superior to that of the uncoated one. Since the solvent and the size can be completely recycled, this can be developed into an industrially viable green technology.
Keywords: Green chemistry; Supercritical; Carbon dioxide; Sucrose octaacetate; Coating; Paper industry

Colin C. Venters, Rafael Capilla, Stefanie Betz, Birgit Penzenstadler, Tom Crick, Steve Crouch, Elisa Yumi Nakagawa, Christoph Becker, Carlos Carrillo,
Software sustainability: Research and practice from a software architecture viewpoint,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 138,
2018,
Pages 174-188,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2017.12.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121217303072)
Abstract: Context
Modern societies are highly dependent on complex, large-scale, software-intensive systems that increasingly operate within an environment of continuous availability, which is challenging to maintain and evolve in response to the inevitable changes in stakeholder goals and requirements of the system. Software architectures are the foundation of any software system and provide a mechanism for reasoning about core software quality requirements. Their sustainability – the capacity to endure in changing environments – is a critical concern for software architecture research and practice.
Problem
Accidental software complexity accrues both naturally and gradually over time as part of the overall software design and development process. From a software architecture perspective, this allows several issues to overlap including, but not limited to: the accumulation of technical debt design decisions of individual components and systems leading to coupling and cohesion issues; the application of tacit architectural knowledge resulting in unsystematic and undocumented design decisions; architectural knowledge vaporisation of design choices and the continued ability of the organization to understand the architecture of its systems; sustainability debt and the broader cumulative effects of flawed architectural design choices over time resulting in code smells, architectural brittleness, erosion, and drift, which ultimately lead to decay and software death. Sustainable software architectures are required to evolve over the entire lifecycle of the system from initial design inception to end-of-life to achieve efficient and effective maintenance and evolutionary change.
Method
This article outlines general principles and perspectives on sustainability with regards to software systems to provide a context and terminology for framing the discourse on software architectures and sustainability. Focusing on the capacity of software architectures and architectural design choices to endure over time, it highlights some of the recent research trends and approaches with regards to explicitly addressing sustainability in the context of software architectures.
Contribution
The principal aim of this article is to provide a foundation and roadmap of emerging research themes in the area of sustainable software architectures highlighting recent trends, and open issues and research challenges.
Keywords: Software architecture; Software sustainability; Longevity; Evolution

Muhammad Aufeef Chauhan, Muhammad Ali Babar,
Chapter 7 - Using Reference Architectures for Design and Evaluation of Web of Things Systems✶✶This chapter describes a method for software architecture design, analysis, evaluation and evolution of individual Internet of Things (IoT) subsystems and how individual IoT subsystems can be used for design of Web of Things (WoT) systems.: A Case of Smart Homes Domain,
Editor(s): Quan Z. Sheng, Yongrui Qin, Lina Yao, Boualem Benatallah,
Managing the Web of Things,
Morgan Kaufmann,
2017,
Pages 205-228,
ISBN 9780128097649,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809764-9.00009-3.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128097649000093)
Abstract: Web of Things (WoT) provides abstraction that simplifies the creation of Internet of Things (IoT) systems. IoT systems are designed to support a number of ubiquitous devices and management subsystems. The devices and subsystems can be a part of safety critical operations as well as smart management of multiple actuators that control the smart home devices. The devices and subsystems need to comply to standardized business and quality requirements of a specific IoT domain. Designing subsystems and actuators for the individual devices as independent software can result in lack of standardization, which can negatively impact the overall quality of a WoT system. Standardisation of the IoT applications and subsystems constituting a WoT system can be facilitated by providing a standardisation at the architecture level. As using Reference Architectures (RA) is a well established approach to achieve architectural standardisation, using the RA for designing IoT subsystems and WoT system can facilitate standardisation of the architecture of individual subsystems constituting a WoT system as well as standardisation of the WoT system. The aim of the research presented this chapter is to provide insight to the process of using a RA for analysis, design, evaluation and evolution of the IoT subsystems as well as a WoT system. We present a software process-based approach to use a RA for architecture design of individual IoT subsystems and then use the IoT subsystems for architecture design of a WoT system. We use a case study-based research approach to analyse application of the process for design, evaluation and evolution of the IoT subsystems and the WoT system for smart-homes domain. The applications of the presented approach is analysed with reference to case studies on security and energy management in smart homes. The results of the case studies show that (i) the IoT RA can be used for the initial design to incorporate the standardized business and quality requirements, (ii) the elements of the concrete IoT subsystems architectures can be included in the IoT RA for evolution of the RA with respect to emerging and domain specific requirements, and (iii) open discussion by including architects of all IoT subsystems to determine key business and quality requirements of IoT subsystems can play an important rule in the evaluation of the IoT subsystems as well as evolution of the IoT RA. We foresee that the presented approach can be used for the analysis, design, evaluation and evolution of the IoT subsystems and WoT system even if the detailed architecture design activities of the IoT subsystems are carried out independently.
Keywords: Reference Architecture (RA); Internet of Things (IoT); Web of Things (WoT); Architecture Quality; Architecture Evolution

Dhrgam AL Kafaf, Dae-Kyoo Kim,
A web service-based approach for developing self-adaptive systems,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 63,
2017,
Pages 260-276,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2017.06.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790617318992)
Abstract: The current development on self-adaptive systems mainly focuses on autonomy and self-containment where decision-making solely depends on the local knowledge base within the system. This limits the evolution of the knowledge base for making more precise decisions. There have been some recent works using the cloud for the knowledge base. However, they suffer from the overhead caused by the communication with the cloud. In this work, we propose a hybrid approach for developing self-adaptive systems using both the local knowledge base in the vehicle and the global knowledge base provided via a web service. The global knowledge base is shared and evolves by multiple vehicles through the web service. We validate the approach using Gazebo, a 3D simulation environment for robotic systems. The results show 96% precision in identifying objects with a viable overhead introduced by the web service and 40% improvement in precision over the traditional approach.
Keywords: k-means; kNN; Machine learning; Self-adaptation; Robots; Web services

Antonio Brogi, Răzvan Popescu, Francisco Gutiérrez, Pablo López, Ernesto Pimentel,
A Service-Oriented Model for Embedded Peer-to-Peer Systems,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 194, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 5-22,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2008.03.096.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066108002016)
Abstract: This paper introduces a service-oriented model for the development of Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems. We first describe the set of abstract primitives supported by the model, and then the semantics for a simple calculus over these primitives that provides a solid ground to develop tools for the analysis and verification of P2P specifications.
Keywords: Peer-to-peer system (P2P); service-oriented model; embedded P2P system (EP2P)

Connor Scully-Allison, Vinh Le, Eric Fritzinger, Scotty Strachan, Frederick C. Harris, Sergiu M. Dascalu,
Near Real-time Autonomous Quality Control for Streaming Environmental Sensor Data,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 126,
2018,
Pages 1656-1665,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2018.08.139.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050918314170)
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel and accessible approach to time-series data validation: the Near-Real Time Autonomous Quality Control (NRAQC) system. The design, implementation, and impacts of this software are explored in detail within this paper. This software system, created in close conference with environmental scientists, leverages microservice design patterns employed for high volume web applications to develop a contemporary solution to the problem of data quality control with streaming sensor data. Through a comparative analysis between NRAQC and the GCE Toolbox, we argue that the web based deployment of QC software enhances accessibility to crucial tools required to make a robust and useful data product from raw measurements. Additionally, a key innovation of the NRAQC platform is its positive impact on modern data management practices and quality data dissemination.
Keywords: Software Engineering; Data Management; Microservices; Quality Control; Web-based Systems; Information Quality

Foutse Khomh, S. Amirhossein Abtahizadeh,
Understanding the impact of cloud patterns on performance and energy consumption,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 141,
2018,
Pages 151-170,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2018.03.063.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121218300621)
Abstract: Cloud patterns are abstract solutions to recurrent design problems in the cloud. Previous work has shown that these patterns can improve the Quality of Service (QoS) of cloud applications but their impact on energy consumption is still unknown. In this work, we conduct an empirical study on two multi-processing and multi-threaded applications deployed in the cloud, to investigate the individual and the combined impact of six cloud patterns (Local Database Proxy, Local Sharding Based Router, Priority Queue, Competing Consumers, Gatekeeper and Pipes and Filters) on the energy consumption. We measure the energy consumption using Power-API; an application programming interface (API) written in Java to monitor the energy consumed at the process-level. Results show that cloud patterns can effectively reduce the energy consumption of a cloud-based application, but not in all cases. In general, there appear to be a trade-off between an improved response time of the application and the energy consumption. Moreover, our findings show that migrating an application to a microservices architecture can improve the performance of the application, while significantly reducing its energy consumption. We summarize our contributions in the form of guidelines that developers and software architects can follow during the implementation of a cloud-based application.
Keywords: Cloud patterns; Energy consumption; Performance optimization; Energy efficiency

Martin Nečaský, Jakub Klímek, Jakub Malý, Irena Mlýnková,
Evolution and change management of XML-based systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 85, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 683-707,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.09.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121211002524)
Abstract: XML is de-facto a standard language for data exchange. Structure of XML documents exchanged among different components of a system (e.g. services in a Service-Oriented Architecture) is usually described with XML schemas. It is a common practice that there is not only one but a whole family of XML schemas each applied in a particular logical execution part of the system. In such systems, the design and later maintenance of the XML schemas is not a simple task. In this paper we aim at a part of this problem – evolution of the family of the XML schemas. A single change in user requirements or surrounding environment of the system may influence more XML schemas in the family. A designer needs to identify the XML schemas affected by a change and ensure that they are evolved coherently with each other to meet the new requirement. Doing this manually is very time consuming and error prone. In this paper we show that much of the manual work can be automated. For this, we introduce a technique based on the principles of Model-Driven Development. A designer is required to make a change only once in a conceptual schema of the problem domain and our technique ensures semi-automatic coherent propagation to all affected XML schemas (and vice versa). We provide a formal model of possible evolution changes and their propagation mechanism. We also evaluate the approach on a real-world evolution scenario.
Keywords: XML data modeling; Model driven architecture; XML schema evolution; Propagation of changes

Taoyu Xu, Xuefa Shi, Shengfa Liu, Shuqing Qiao, Zhengquan Yao, Xisheng Fang, Yonghua Wu, Xin Shan, Jianxing Liu, Gang Yang, Chenguang Liu, Xiaoyan Li, Jingjing Cui, Quanhong Zhao,
Late Quaternary sedimentary evolution of the outer shelf of the East China Sea,
Quaternary International,
Volume 493,
2018,
Pages 59-69,
ISSN 1040-6182,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.quaint.2018.06.043.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1040618218307936)
Abstract: This study investigated the late Quaternary sedimentary evolution of the outer shelf of the East China Sea (ECS) using borehole core data (DH02). Three unconformity-bounded sedimentary facies, namely, prodelta facies of marine isotopic stage (MIS) 3, intertidal to subtidal flat facies of the deglacial period, and offshore tidal sand ridge facies of the Holocene, were identified from the base upward according to combined evidence of lithology, microfossil assemblages, and geochronology. Through comparative analysis with other neighboring borehole cores, these three facies, along with the MIS 3 nearshore facies and the last glacial maximum (LGM) river facies, were found to constitute the late Quaternary sediment strata. Sedimentary processes of these five facies were interpreted based on a synthetic consideration of sea-level change, climate variation, paleotopographic setting, and paleoriver-sea interactions. In particular, the development of the delta was attributable to integration of the slow sea-level decline during the later stage of the MIS 3 and abundant sediment supply resulting from the warm-wet climate. The gentle shelf topography suggests the presence of shallow and wide rivers in the delta, and the lateral shift of river channels might have induced the local formation of nearshore facies at the abandoned river mouth. The LGM river facies, which was rarely observed (presumably due to marine erosion with deglacial transgression), was inferred to have been deposited during the latter half of the LGM in response to the rise in river base level. Occurrences of tidal flat facies imply the formation of a tide-dominated estuary with the deglacial transgression. Furthermore, tidal flat sediments were reworked by enhanced tidal currents in the estuary front environment, forming mud ridges during subsequent deglacial transgression. Formation of tidal sand ridges in offshore environments of the Holocene was attributable to the uneven base caused by the underlying estuarine erosion mud ridges, and this promoted the occurrence of tidal depositional processes. The sedimentary evolution in association with sea-level change was constructed using the above-mentioned results. Overall, this study systematically elucidates the late Quaternary sedimentary processes and evolution of the outer ECS shelf, and provides an insight into the sedimentary development of analogous shelves around the world.
Keywords: Late Quaternary; East China Sea; Continental shelf; Sedimentary facies; Sedimentary processes

Gerald Schermann, Jürgen Cito, Philipp Leitner, Uwe Zdun, Harald C. Gall,
We’re doing it live: A multi-method empirical study on continuous experimentation,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 99,
2018,
Pages 41-57,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2018.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584917302136)
Abstract: Context
Continuous experimentation guides development activities based on data collected on a subset of online users on a new experimental version of the software. It includes practices such as canary releases, gradual rollouts, dark launches, or A/B testing.
Objective
Unfortunately, our knowledge of continuous experimentation is currently primarily based on well-known and outspoken industrial leaders. To assess the actual state of practice in continuous experimentation, we conducted a mixed-method empirical study.
Method
In our empirical study consisting of four steps, we interviewed 31 developers or release engineers, and performed a survey that attracted 187 complete responses. We analyzed the resulting data using statistical analysis and open coding.
Results
Our results lead to several conclusions: (1) from a software architecture perspective, continuous experimentation is especially enabled by architectures that foster independently deployable services, such as microservices-based architectures; (2) from a developer perspective, experiments require extensive monitoring and analytics to discover runtime problems, consequently leading to developer on call policies and influencing the role and skill sets required by developers; and (3) from a process perspective, many organizations conduct experiments based on intuition rather than clear guidelines and robust statistics.
Conclusion
Our findings show that more principled and structured approaches for release decision making are needed, striving for highly automated, systematic, and data- and hypothesis-driven deployment and experimentation.
Keywords: Release engineering; Continuous deployment; Continuous experimentation; Empirical study

Jun Liu, Robert J. Kauffman, Dan Ma,
Competition, cooperation, and regulation: Understanding the evolution of the mobile payments technology ecosystem,
Electronic Commerce Research and Applications,
Volume 14, Issue 5,
2015,
Pages 372-391,
ISSN 1567-4223,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2015.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567422315000150)
Abstract: The past twenty years have been a time of many new technological developments, changing business practices, and interesting innovations in the financial information system (IS) and technology landscape. They have led to the increasing use of prior innovations that have supported e-commerce, and that are now being brought into financial services to support different kinds of improvements to core business processes. This research examines recent changes in the payment sector in financial services, specifically related to mobile payments (m-payments) that enable new channels for consumer payments for goods and services purchases, and other forms of economic exchange. We extend recent research on technology ecosystems and paths of influence analysis for how industry-centered technology innovations arise and evolve. We explore the extent to which they can be understood through the lens of several simple building blocks, including technology components, technology-based services, and the technology-supported infrastructures that provide foundations for the related digital businesses. Our extension of the prior research focuses on two key elements: (1) modeling the impacts of competition and cooperation on different forms of innovations in the aforementioned building blocks; and (2) representing the role that regulatory forces play in driving or delaying innovation in the larger scope of our modeling approach. To assess the efficacy of our approach, we use it to retrospectively analyze the past two decades of innovations in the m-payments space. Our results identify the industry-specific patterns of innovation that have occurred, suggest how they have been affected by competition, cooperation and regulation, and point out some more universal patterns of technology innovations that offer insights into the development of e-commerce.
Keywords: Competition; Cooperation; e-Commerce; Financial services; Mobile payments; Paths of influence; Regulation; Technology evolution; Technology ecosystems

Sonia Peinado, Guadalupe Ortiz, Juan Manuel Dodero,
A metamodel and taxonomy to facilitate context-aware service adaptation,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 44,
2015,
Pages 262-279,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2015.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790615000294)
Abstract: Increasingly, companies are adopting service-oriented architectures to respond to rapid changes in the market. Even though there are excellent tools and frameworks for service-oriented architecture adoption and service development, the latest adaptation to context has not been properly dealt with yet. Current approaches are mostly focused on solving context-aware issues for web applications only, focusing mainly on client-side adaptation, and there is a clear lack of context taxonomies which facilitate context-aware applications. In our previous work we proposed Model-Driven Adaptable Services (MoDAS): a methodology and tool for the development of context-aware services. In this paper, we propose two key improvements on MoDAS: firstly, leveraging the proposal’s abstraction level, facilitating the use of a larger collection of contexts through the definition of an extensible context taxonomy by means of a metamodel; secondly, providing additional opportunities for code generation.
Keywords: Metamodel; Context-awareness; Web services; Model-driven development

Aakash Ahmad, Muhammad Ali Babar,
Software architectures for robotic systems: A systematic mapping study,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 122,
2016,
Pages 16-39,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2016.08.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121216301479)
Abstract: Context
Several research efforts have been targeted to support architecture centric development and evolution of software for robotic systems for the last two decades.
Objective
We aimed to systematically identify and classify the existing solutions, research progress and directions that influence architecture-driven modeling, development and evolution of robotic software.
Research Method
We have used Systematic Mapping Study (SMS) method for identifying and analyzing 56 peer-reviewed papers. Our review has (i) taxonomically classified the existing research and (ii) systematically mapped the solutions, frameworks, notations and evaluation methods to highlight the role of software architecture in robotic systems.
Results and Conclusions
We have identified eight themes that support architectural solutions to enable (i) operations, (ii) evolution and (iii) development specific activities of robotic software. The research in this area has progressed from object-oriented to component-based and now to service-driven robotics representing different architectural models that emerged overtime. An emerging solution is cloud robotics that exploits the foundations of service-driven architectures to support an interconnected web of robots. The results of this SMS facilitate knowledge transfer – benefiting researchers and practitioners – focused on exploiting software architecture to model, develop and evolve robotic systems.
Keywords: Software architecture; Robotic systems; Evidence-based software engineering; Software architecture for robotics; Systematic mapping study

S. Veera Ragavan, Kumail Haider, Madhavan Shanmugavel,
Healthcare Telematics Service Implementation Using OSGi Framework,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 42,
2014,
Pages 168-174,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.11.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050914014860)
Abstract: This paper outlines the rapid application development of a Healthcare Telematics System application for use in emergency first response vehicles on the Service Oriented Architecture model using an OSGi framework. OSGi facilitates the development of application modules at the knowledge level thus encouraging quick creation and prototyping of services. In this paper, we have built a prototype application for use in Medical Telematics to provide remotely placed doctors at hospitals with patient FIRs to enable supervised emergency medical care by paramedics even before the patients reach the hospitals.
Keywords: Healthcare Telematics; Service Oriented Architecture; OSGi framework; Emergency First Response

Ferran Giones, Alexander Brem,
From toys to tools: The co-evolution of technological and entrepreneurial developments in the drone industry,
Business Horizons,
Volume 60, Issue 6,
2017,
Pages 875-884,
ISSN 0007-6813,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2017.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0007681317301210)
Abstract: There is undoubtedly hype around drones and their applications for private and professional users. Based on a brief overview of the development of the drone industry in recent years, this article examines the co-evolution of drone technology and the entrepreneurial activity linked to it. Our results highlight the industry emergence described as concept validation, including product as well as market growth with different phases of technological meaning change. We argue that further steps are needed to develop drones from nice toys to professional tools—from photography and filming applications to inspection services and large cargo logistics. For innovation managers and entrepreneurs, we describe what triggers the emergence of a technology and attracts the needed actors to unleash its transformative potential. Our research is based on industry reports, news, and market studies as well as interviews with four industry actors.
Keywords: Technological progress; Entrepreneurial activity; Drones; Drone industry; Emerging industries; Unmanned aircraft systems; Unmanned aerial vehicles; Drone development

Alicia García-Holgado, Francisco José García-Peñalvo,
Architectural pattern to improve the definition and implementation of eLearning ecosystems,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 129,
2016,
Pages 20-34,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.03.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642316300259)
Abstract: Knowledge management within companies and institutions is one of the main problems when defining and developing new solutions to improve information systems. Currently, information systems have evolved into technological ecosystems that are a set of different components related to each other through information flows in a physical environment that supports these flows, where users are part of the ecosystem. Particularly, during the last several years, the Open Source software has been used to develop these technological solutions. The aim of this paper is to formalize an architectural pattern to support the right description and implementation of eLearning ecosystems. The theoretical basis has been provided in previous works by using a comparative analysis of the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats of several real case studies developed in different contexts. The problems detected through the previous analysis have been modelled using the Business Process Model and Notation. Next, the pattern has been formalized with the Service-oriented architecture Modelling Language. Finally, the pattern has been tested in a real context, namely, an institutional development for the Spanish Public Administration, which has demonstrated that the pattern works properly. As a result, we have obtained a set of Business Process Model and Notation diagrams that provide a high abstraction level for the main detected problems in eLearning ecosystems. We have also obtained an architectural pattern composed of several layers and a set of external elements that provides a solution to these problems.
Keywords: eLearning ecosystems; Information systems; Architectural pattern; Software engineering; Open Source software

Sandeep Krishnan, Chris Strasburg, Robyn R. Lutz, Katerina Goseva-Popstojanova, Karin S. Dorman,
Predicting failure-proneness in an evolving software product line,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 8,
2013,
Pages 1479-1495,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912002340)
Abstract: Context
Previous work by researchers on 3years of early data for an Eclipse product has identified some predictors of failure-prone files that work well. Eclipse has also been used previously by researchers to study characteristics of product line software.
Objective
The work reported here investigates whether classification-based prediction of failure-prone files improves as the product line evolves.
Method
This investigation first repeats, to the extent possible, the previous study and then extends it by including four more recent years of data, comparing the prominent predictors with the previous results. The research then looks at the data for three additional Eclipse products as they evolve over time. The analysis compares results from three different types of datasets with alternative data collection and prediction periods.
Results
Our experiments with a variety of learners show that the difference between the performance of J48, used in this work, and the other top learners is not statistically significant. Furthermore, new results show that the effectiveness of classification significantly depends on the data collection period and prediction period. The study identifies change metrics that are prominent predictors across all four releases of all four products in the product line for the three different types of datasets. From the product line perspective, prediction of failure-prone files for the four products studied in the Eclipse product line shows statistically significant improvement in accuracy but not in recall across releases.
Conclusion
As the product line matures, the learner performance improves significantly for two of the three datasets, but not for prediction of post-release failure-prone files using only pre-release change data. This suggests that it may be difficult to detect failure-prone files in the evolving product line. At least in part, this may be due to the continuous change, even for commonalities and high-reuse variation components, which we previously have shown to exist.
Keywords: Software product lines; Change metrics; Reuse; Prediction; Post-release defects; Failure-prone files

Béatrix Barafort, Anup Shrestha, Stéphane Cortina, Alain Renault,
A software artefact to support standard-based process assessment: Evolution of the TIPA® framework in a design science research project,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 60,
2018,
Pages 37-47,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2018.04.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548918300485)
Abstract: Managing processes remain a key challenge for most organizations which need to preserve competitiveness. Process assessment frameworks can help by providing instruments guiding process improvement and regulation alignment. Several process assessment frameworks such as TIPA® are based on the ISO Process assessment standard series ISO/IEC 15504, currently revised in the ISO/IEC 330xx family of standards. Following a Design Science Research (DSR) methodology, this paper visits the TIPA Framework evolution throughout iterative cycles in terms of design, rigour and relevance. It investigates how original and new artefacts are being developed and improved, in particular the new strategic move towards the automation of the assessment process represented by a new software artefact. By demonstrating the evolution of the TIPA framework using a DSR perspective combined with Action Design Research for the new software artefact, this paper explicates design knowledge regarding the role and value of the framework within the ISO standards community and in practice.
Keywords: TIPA framework; Process assessment; ITIL; ISO/IEC 330xx Process Assessment standards series; Design Science Research

Sharon Q. Yang, Lili Li,
Chapter 6 - Evolving Digital Library and Library Digitization,
Editor(s): Sharon Q. Yang, Lili Li,
Emerging Technologies for Librarians,
Chandos Publishing,
2016,
Pages 69-102,
ISBN 9781843347880,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-1-84334-788-0.00006-9.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9781843347880000069)
Abstract: The prosperity of the Internet and the World Wide Web (WWW) has led to a high tide for the digital revolution in libraries worldwide. To deliver and disseminate a world of information at users' fingertips, many libraries have launched digital library or institutional repositories. This chapter explores the surging waves of the digital revolution and its impacts on libraries around the world. In the networked cyberspace, the mass digitization of library archives or published works does not represent only a way of preserving human civilization or promoting scholarly information across the academic landscape. The developing trend toward digital libraries and library digitization has thoroughly changed libraries from knowledge consumers to knowledge producers. It means that libraries worldwide have more power to deliver, disseminate, produce, and share information in the modern information society. To promote more library creation and innovation, a number of popular proprietary and open source software has also been reviewed in different IT architectures. Finally, practical suggestions have been made for initializing and implementing library digital projects.
Keywords: Digital acquisition and collection development; Digital asset management; Digital content management; Digital library; Digital revolution; Format; Institutional repository; Library digitization; Open access; Open source; Open source software

L. Fiaschetti, M. Antunez, E. Trapani, L. Valenzuela, A. Rubiales, M. Risso, G. Boroni,
Monitoring and controlling energy distribution: Implementation of a distribution management system based on Common Information Model,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 94,
2018,
Pages 67-76,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2017.06.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014206151730090X)
Abstract: The management of renewable and distributed energy resources is changing the way in which electric distribution systems are being operated. Many companies commonly create several custom system solutions to manage power distribution. The functions provided by these systems are network visualization, state estimation, system control and data acquisition, among others. Despite their relevance, many mid-size or small distribution companies have problems to install one of these solutions because they are either very expensive, incompatible, or limited by difficulties in data exchange. As a possible solution to this problem, this paper presents the development of a Distribution Management System (DMS) based on open source technology. This system combines four main components: OpenDSS-framework, ActiveMQ-broker, applications for visualizing and editing electrical network, and Common Information Model (CIM). The tool is part of Tenergia R&D project 1This work is financed by R&D projects FITS 2013 – UREE10 – FONARSEC – Ministry of Science, Technology and Productive Innovation of Argentina, and PIDDEF 36/14 – Ministry of Defense of Argentina.1 and has a collection of applications designed to monitor and control the distribution networks located in Argentina.
Keywords: Open architecture design; Common Information Model; Smart grid; Electrical engineering; Distribution management system; Computer-aided engineering; Power system metering

Wenhai Lu, Shuming Liu, Yi Yang, Ruiquan Fu, Xianquan Xiang, Yanmin Qu, Haiyan Huang,
Design for the Emergency Command Information System Architecture of Ocean Oil Spill,
Aquatic Procedia,
Volume 3,
2015,
Pages 41-49,
ISSN 2214-241X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aqpro.2015.02.226.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214241X15002278)
Abstract: On the basis of defining the Ocean Oil Spill Information Services and in order to improve the efficiency of disposal and command of more frequent ocean oil spill accidents, the SOA (service oriented architecture) and P2P (peer-to-peer) are utilized to design the physical framework and functional framework of the emergency ocean oil spill command information systems. The goal in this is to study the composition and structure of each framework. The emergency command information system of ocean oil spill is built on C4ISR (command, control, communication, computer, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) architectural framework that is composed of command view, system view, and technology view. The physical framework of the command information system architecture is characterized by a multi-layer structure. The node is divided into LSP (local service peer), GSP (group service peer) and CSP (common service peer). Each system and software set can be encapsulated as part of the Ocean Oil Spill Information Services, with each service being capable of serving as a local service node. Furthermore, each local service node participates within a peer group. According to the service purpose and granularity, the functional framework is divided into physical resource layer, data layer, support service layer, application layer. Data layer mainly includes communication protocol, message format, data type, and various database, etc. Support service layer includes storage management service, information distribution service, service management, human-computer interactive service, resource sharing service and information security service, etc. Application layer includes situation generating service, emergency plan service, emergency command service, emergency assessment service, communication support service, navigation and positioning service, etc. We draw conclusions that the information system architecture proposed in the paper has more prominent reliability and flexibility through contrastive analysis of similar information system architecture, and lay foundations for research intoocean oil spill service-oriented command information systems.
Keywords: Ocean Oil Spill; Command Information System; Framework,Ocean Oil Spill Information Services

Martin Breunig, Paul V. Kuper, Edgar Butwilowski, Andreas Thomsen, Markus Jahn, André Dittrich, Mulhim Al-Doori, Darya Golovko, Mathias Menninghaus,
The story of DB4GeO – A service-based geo-database architecture to support multi-dimensional data analysis and visualization,
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing,
Volume 117,
2016,
Pages 187-205,
ISSN 0924-2716,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2015.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271615002762)
Abstract: Multi-dimensional data analysis and visualization need efficient data handling to archive original data, to reproduce results on large data sets, and to retrieve space and time partitions just in time. This article tells the story of more than twenty years research resulting in the development of DB4GeO, a web service-based geo-database architecture for geo-objects to support the data handling of 3D/4D geo-applications. Starting from the roots and lessons learned, the concepts and implementation of DB4GeO are described in detail. Furthermore, experiences and extensions to DB4GeO are presented. Finally, conclusions and an outlook on further research also considering 3D/4D geo-applications for DB4GeO in the context of Dubai 2020 are given.
Keywords: Spatio-temporal data modelling; Geodatabase; Geoservices; Geovisualization; n-d topology

Haihua Xie, Jingwei Yang, Carl K. Chang, Lin Liu,
A statistical analysis approach to predict user's changing requirements for software service evolution,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 132,
2017,
Pages 147-164,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2017.06.071.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121217301358)
Abstract: Evolution is inevitable for almost all software, and may be driven by users’ continuous requests for changes and improvement, the enablement of technology development, among other factors. The evolution of software services can be seen as the evolution of system-user interactions. The capability to accurately and efficiently observe users’ volatile requirements is critical to making timely system improvements to adapt to rapidly changing environments. In this paper, we propose a methodology that employs Conditional Random Fields (CRF) as a means to provide quantitative exploration of system-user interactions that often lead to the discovery of users’ potential needs and requirements. By analyzing users' run-time behavioral patterns, domain experts can make prompt predictions on how users’ intentions shift, and timely propose system improvements or remedies to help address emerging needs. Our ultimate research goal is to speed up software service evolution to a great extent with automated tools, knowing that the challenge can be undoubtedly steep. The evolution of an online research library service is used to illustrate and evaluate the proposed approach in detail.
Keywords: Conditional Random Fields; Human intention detection; Goal inference; Requirements; Service; Software evolution

Michelle Larissa Luciano Carvalho, Matheus Lessa Gonçalves da Silva, Gecynalda Soares da Silva Gomes, Alcemir Rodrigues Santos, Ivan do Carmo Machado, Magno Luã de Jesus Souza, Eduardo Santana de Almeida,
On the implementation of dynamic software product lines: An exploratory study,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 136,
2018,
Pages 74-100,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2017.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121217302601)
Abstract: Dynamic Software Product Line (DSPL) engineering is a paradigm aimed at handling adaptations at runtime. An inherent challenge in DSPL engineering is to reduce the design complexity of adaptable software, particularly in terms of evolution. Existing research only recently started to investigate evolution in this field, but does not assess the impact of different implementations under software quality in evolutionary scenarios. This work presents a characterization of thirteen dynamic variability mechanisms. Based on such characterization, we implemented a DSPL using Object-oriented Programming (OOP) mechanisms. From this implementation, we evidenced that DSPL requires changes and extensions to design, in terms of functionality and adaptation capabilities. Since Aspect-oriented Programming (AOP) was well ranked according to characterization and some studies have demonstrated the likely synergies between AOP and DSPL, we decided to compare it with OOP. We empirically evaluated how OOP and AOP could affect source code quality from the viewpoint of an evolving DSPL. As a result, AOP yields better results in terms of size, SoC, cohesion, and coupling measures. Conversely, AOP provides lower change propagation impact. Although the packages in AOP were more susceptible to changes than in OOP, we could indicate that AOP may be a feasible strategy for DSPL implementation.
Keywords: Dynamic software product lines; Variability mechanisms; Software evolution; Evidence-based software engineering

Juan F. De Paz, Javier Bajo, Sara Rodríguez, Gabriel Villarrubia, Juan M. Corchado,
Intelligent system for lighting control in smart cities,
Information Sciences,
Volume 372,
2016,
Pages 241-255,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.08.045.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516306119)
Abstract: This paper presents an adaptive architecture that centralizes the control of public lighting and intelligent management to economize lighting and maintain maximum visual comfort in illuminated areas. To carry out this management, the architecture merges various techniques of artificial intelligence (AI) and statistics such as artificial neural networks (ANN), multi-agent systems (MAS), EM algorithm, methods based on ANOVA, and a Service Oriented Approach (SOA). It achieves optimization in terms of both energy consumption and cost by using a modular architecture, and is fully adaptable to current lighting systems. The architecture was successfully tested and validated and continues to be in development.
Keywords: Light sensors; Intelligent systems; Distributed systems; Autonomous control; Street lighting

Luigi Atzori, Antonio Iera, Giacomo Morabito,
Understanding the Internet of Things: definition, potentials, and societal role of a fast evolving paradigm,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 56,
2017,
Pages 122-140,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2016.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870516303316)
Abstract: The high penetration rate of new technologies in all the activities of everyday life is fostering the belief that for any new societal challenge there is always an ICT solution able to successfully deal with it. Recently, the solution that is proposed almost anytime is the “Internet of Things” (IoT). This apparent panacea of the ICT world takes different aspects on and, actually, is identified with different (often very different) technological solutions. As a result, many think that IoT is just RFIDs, others think that it is sensor networks, and yet others that it is machine-to-machine communications. In the meanwhile, industrial players are taking advantage of the popularity of IoT to use it as a very trendy brand for technology solutions oriented to the consumer market. The scientific literature sometimes does not help much in clarifying, as it is rich in definitions of IoT often discordant between them. Objective of this paper is to present the evolutionary stages, i.e., generations, that have characterized the development of IoT, along with the motivations of their triggering. Besides, it analyzes the role that IoT can play in addressing the main societal challenges and the set of features expected from the relevant solutions. The final objective is to give a modern definition of the phenomenon, which de facto shows a strong pervasive nature, and, if not well understood in its theories, technologies, methodologies, and real potentials, then runs the risk of being regarded with suspicion and, thus, rejected by users.
Keywords: Internet of Things; Web of things; Cloud of things

Anna Kobusińska, Ching-Hsien Hsu,
Towards increasing reliability of clouds environments with RESTful web services,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 87,
2018,
Pages 502-513,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.10.050.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17316709)
Abstract: Recently, cloud computing has turned out to be a desired standard for development of distributed, large-scale applications. It allows to exploit on-demand various IT resources, ranging from virtual machines, storage, and databases to a broad set of cloud web services. Such services are closely intertwined with service-oriented architectures, and their design and implementation is often supported by Representational State Transfer methodology. Although cloud environments offering RESTful services constitute a desired computing model, their adoption is not free from challenges. Among the others, providing reliability of such environments poses difficulties and affects their usability. Since the simple restart of a failed processing (as a new instance) from the very beginning, is usually insufficient and often leads to unacceptable inconsistency of processing state, in this paper we propose a fault-tolerant mechanism that copes with this problem. In the proposed solution we introduce recovery consistency model that exploits semantics of REST operations and structure of resources, in order to flexibly determine formal requirements ensuring that the recovered processing state is compatible with REST constraints. Next, we put forward an efficient external upport of RESTful web services recovery, by presenting the protocol that extends ReServE rollback-recovery service and guarantees RESTful recovery consistency model. We provide a proof of protocol correctness, and experimentally evaluate efficiency of the proposed approach.
Keywords: SOA; RESTful web services; Rollback-recovery; Fault-tolerance; Consistency

Marlen S. Krause, Ephraim Nkonya, Verena C. Griess,
An economic valuation of ecosystem services based on perceptions of rural Ethiopian communities,
Ecosystem Services,
Volume 26, Part A,
2017,
Pages 37-44,
ISSN 2212-0416,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoser.2017.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212041617303972)
Abstract: Ethiopia is facing severe land degradation resulting in a growing need to better understand ecosystem services (ES) and their importance for rural communities. We conducted focus group discussions in six rural communities in Ethiopia’s Oromia region to gather data on land use and livelihood trends over a timespan of three decades. We assessed the perception of local communities regarding the relevance of ES and economically quantified the perceived ES values that community members derive from forests, grasslands and croplands. Results show that between 2000 and 2013 the area under cropland increased by 12%, whereas forests and grasslands decreased by 8% and 7%, respectively. Between 1982 and 2013 the perceived loss of ES values summed up to 280US$/ha/y for forests, 79US$/ha/y for cropland, and 12US$/ha/y for grasslands. We assessed the total economic value (TEV) of each land-use type, with forests ranking the highest, followed by croplands and grasslands respectively. While community members value forests the highest with respect to intangible ES, forests also experienced the strongest decline in the perceived contribution to livelihood. High population growth rates are a strong indirect cause of deforestation driving the need for more farmland. We conclude that efforts for trans-sectoral policy development have to be made to harmonise land use policies, leading to long term sustainability.
Keywords: Ecosystem services; Land degradation; Economic valuation; Livelihoods; Land use change; Ethiopia

Bardia Mohabbati, Mohsen Asadi, Dragan Gašević, Marek Hatala, Hausi A. Müller,
Combining service-orientation and software product line engineering: A systematic mapping study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 1845-1859,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2013.05.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584913001274)
Abstract: Context
Service-Orientation (SO) is a rapidly emerging paradigm for the design and development of adaptive and dynamic software systems. Software Product Line Engineering (SPLE) has also gained attention as a promising and successful software reuse development paradigm over the last decade and proven to provide effective solutions to deal with managing the growing complexity of software systems.
Objective
This study aims at characterizing and identifying the existing research on employing and leveraging SO and SPLE.
Method
We conducted a systematic mapping study to identify and analyze related literature. We identified 81 primary studies, dated from 2000–2011 and classified them with respect to research focus, types of research and contribution.
Result
The mapping synthesizes the available evidence about combining the synergy points and integration of SO and SPLE. The analysis shows that the majority of studies focus on service variability modeling and adaptive systems by employing SPLE principles and approaches. In particular, SPLE approaches, especially feature-oriented approaches for variability modeling, have been applied to the design and development of service-oriented systems. While SO is employed in software product line contexts for the realization of product lines to reconcile the flexibility, scalability and dynamism in product derivations thereby creating dynamic software product lines.
Conclusion
Our study summarizes and characterizes the SO and SPLE topics researchers have investigated over the past decade and identifies promising research directions as due to the synergy generated by integrating methods and techniques from these two areas.
Keywords: Systematic mapping; Service-oriented architecture; Software product lines

Flora Amato, Valentina Casola, Andrea Gaglione, Antonino Mazzeo,
A semantic enriched data model for sensor network interoperability,
Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,
Volume 19, Issue 8,
2011,
Pages 1745-1757,
ISSN 1569-190X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.simpat.2010.09.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1569190X10002005)
Abstract: One of the main open issues in the development of applications for sensor network management is the definition of interoperability mechanisms among the several monitoring systems and heterogeneous data. Interesting researches related to integration techniques have taken place, they are primary based on the adoption of sharing data mechanisms. In the last years, the Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) approach has become predominant in many sensor network projects as it enables the cooperation and interoperability of different sensor platforms at an higher level of abstraction. In this paper we propose a novel architecture for the interoperability of sensor networks, which is based on web services technologies and on a common data model enriched with semantic concepts and annotations. The proposed architecture allows the development of complex decision support system applications by integration of heterogeneous data, accessible through services, according to standard data format and standard protocols.
Keywords: Sensor network interoperability; Sensor data model; Service based architectures; Web services

Zuohua Ding, Mei-Hwa Chen, Xiaoxue Li,
Online reliability computing of composite services based on program invariants,
Information Sciences,
Volume 264,
2014,
Pages 340-348,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.05.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513003952)
Abstract: Reliability is an essential software quality requirement, especially for online service software. Without an accurate prediction of service reliability, any unexpected failure can disrupt service. The majority of existing models use static data collected prior to the release of the software. These types of models may predict the reliability of the software as it was during the data collection phase. However, online service software is continuously evolving, and their behaviors can be changed by the runtime usage. Thus, the prediction made by static data can be inaccurate. We present an approach to tackle this challenge by taking into account software runtime behavior in our reliability prediction. We used a data mining tool, Daikon, to collect likely invariants of the software to capture its states in the runtime. This runtime information is then used to compute the reliability of the software by using our port-based reliability model.
Keywords: Reliability computing; Prot-based reliability model; Program invariants; Service composition

F.S. Santana, M.F. de Siqueira, A.M. Saraiva, P.L.P. Correa,
A reference business process for ecological niche modelling,
Ecological Informatics,
Volume 3, Issue 1,
2008,
Pages 75-86,
ISSN 1574-9541,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2007.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954107000933)
Abstract: Ecological niche modelling combines species occurrence points with environmental raster layers in order to obtain models for describing the probabilistic distribution of species. The process to generate an ecological niche model is complex. It requires dealing with a large amount of data, use of different software packages for data conversion, for model generation and for different types of processing and analyses, among other functionalities. A software platform that integrates all requirements under a single and seamless interface would be very helpful for users. Furthermore, since biodiversity modelling is constantly evolving, new requirements are constantly being added in terms of functions, algorithms and data formats. This evolution must be accompanied by any software intended to be used in this area. In this scenario, a Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an appropriate choice for designing such systems. According to SOA best practices and methodologies, the design of a reference business process must be performed prior to the architecture definition. The purpose is to understand the complexities of the process (business process in this context refers to the ecological niche modelling problem) and to design an architecture able to offer a comprehensive solution, called a reference architecture, that can be further detailed when implementing specific systems. This paper presents a reference business process for ecological niche modelling, as part of a major work focused on the definition of a reference architecture based on SOA concepts that will be used to evolve the openModeller software package for species modelling. The basic steps that are performed while developing a model are described, highlighting important aspects, based on the knowledge of modelling experts. In order to illustrate the steps defined for the process, an experiment was developed, modelling the distribution of Ouratea spectabilis (Mart.) Engl. (Ochnaceae) using openModeller. As a consequence of the knowledge gained with this work, many desirable improvements on the modelling software packages have been identified and are presented. Also, a discussion on the potential for large-scale experimentation in ecological niche modelling is provided, highlighting opportunities for research. The results obtained are very important for those involved in the development of modelling tools and systems, for requirement analysis and to provide insight on new features and trends for this category of systems. They can also be very helpful for beginners in modelling research, who can use the process and the experiment example as a guide to this complex activity.
Keywords: Ecological niche modeling; Species distribution; SOA; Reference architecture; Reference business process; Modelling software packages

Asim Munawar, Mohamed Wahib, Masaharu Munetomo, Kiyoshi Akama,
The design, usage, and performance of GridUFO: A Grid based Unified Framework for Optimization,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 26, Issue 4,
2010,
Pages 633-644,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2009.12.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X09001800)
Abstract: We present GridUFO (Grid based Unified Framework for Optimization), a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) compliant Problem Solving Environment (PSE) that allows the user to implement/share metaheuristics based optimization algorithms over a Grid. GridUFO eradicates the shortcomings of earlier projects and provides a unified approach for using algorithm/problem pair over a Grid in the easiest possible “plug & play” manner. This framework allows the users to concentrate on the actual application development, by hiding all the complexities involved in a Grid, without compromising on the functionality and flexibility promised by a Grid. This paper provides a detailed overview of the GridUFO infrastructure, specifically the way it deals with optimization algorithms and objective functions, handles Service Level Agreements (SLAs), and follows SOA. We also present various results achieved, that demonstrate both the utility and performance of GridUFO under various application workloads and scenarios.
Keywords: Grid computing; Service oriented architecture; Problem solving environment; Metaheuristics based optimization algorithms; Optimization framework

Behzad Esmaeilian, Sara Behdad, Ben Wang,
The evolution and future of manufacturing: A review,
Journal of Manufacturing Systems,
Volume 39,
2016,
Pages 79-100,
ISSN 0278-6125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmsy.2016.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278612516300024)
Abstract: Manufacturing is continuously evolving from concept development to methods and tools available for the production of goods for use or sale. Traditionally, manufacturing refers to an industrial production process through which raw materials are transformed into finished products to be sold in the market. However, these days manufacturing is considered to be an integrated concept at all levels from machines to production systems to an entire business level operation. Although there have been considerable developments in manufacturing technologies and processes, the actual scope and elements of manufacturing systems are complex and not adequately defined. This paper provides a review of both the tangible and intangible elements of manufacturing systems and presents a state-of-the-art survey of published work. It studies the evolution of research in manufacturing starting from past and current trends to future developments. How manufacturing systems have been classified is also presented. Through this extensive survey of the literature, future directions of this changing field are suggested.
Keywords: Advanced manufacturing; Data analytics in manufacturing; Sustainable manufacturing; Design for manufacturing; Remanufacturing

Jun Ji, Wenjun Liu, Jianxin Yang, Lindong Zhang, Wei Wei,
A Capability-Driven Dynamic Federal Collaborative Design Methodology to Support the Inter-enterprise Development of Ordnance Equipment,
Procedia CIRP,
Volume 60,
2017,
Pages 314-319,
ISSN 2212-8271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2017.01.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827117300124)
Abstract: Facing the challenge of rapid response to customer personalized demand and developing high quality competitive ordnance equipment, the paper proposes a capability-driven dynamic federal collaborative design methodology to support inter-enterprise development. The core is dynamic constructing collaborative development capability federation (CDCF) by combinatorial optimizing and intelligent disposing various inter-enterprise designing and manufacturing capability. The paper presents the business model and capability models of CDCF and focuses on the capability constraints-based constructing method and requirement-capability matching algorithm of CDCF. Applying service-oriented architecture (SOA)-based integrating method, the inter-enterprise federal collaborative development platform was constructed. Finally, a heavy military vehicle inter-enterprise collaborative design engineering application case validates the effectiveness and feasibility of the method.
Keywords: Inter-enterprise Collaborative Development; Capability-Driven Dynamic Federal Collaborative Design; Collaborative Development Capability Federation; Requirement-Capability Matching Algorithm; Ordnance Equipment

Marco Crasso, Cristian Mateos, Alejandro Zunino, Marcelo Campo,
EasySOC: Making web service outsourcing easier,
Information Sciences,
Volume 259,
2014,
Pages 452-473,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2010.01.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025510000277)
Abstract: Service-oriented computing has been widely recognized as a revolutionary paradigm for software development. Despite the important benefits this paradigm provides, current approaches for service-enabling applications still lead to high costs for outsourcing services with regard to two phases of the software life cycle. During the implementation phase, developers have to invest much effort into manually discovering services and then providing code to invoke them. Mostly, the outcome of the second task is software containing service-aware code, therefore it is more difficult to modify and to test during the maintenance phase. This paper describes EasySOC, an approach that aims to decrease the costs of creating and maintaining service-oriented applications. EasySOC combines text mining, machine learning, and best practices from component-based software development to allow developers to quickly discover and non-invasively invoke services. We evaluated the performance of the EasySOC discovery mechanism using 391 services. In addition, through a case study, we conducted a comparative analysis of the software technical quality achieved by employing EasySOC versus not using it.
Keywords: Service-oriented computing; Service outsourcing; Text mining; Machine learning; Dependency injection

Youakim Badr, Salim Hariri, Youssif AL-Nashif, Erik Blasch,
Resilient and Trustworthy Dynamic Data-driven Application Systems (DDDAS) Services for Crisis Management Environments,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 51,
2015,
Pages 2623-2637,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.370.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915011783)
Abstract: Future crisis management systems needresilient and trustworthy infrastructures to quickly develop reliable applications and processes, andensure end-to-end security, trust, and privacy. Due to the multiplicity and diversity of involved actors, volumes of data, and heterogeneity of shared information;crisis management systems tend to be highly vulnerable and subjectto unforeseen incidents. As a result, the dependability of crisis management systems can be at risk. This paper presents a cloud-based resilient and trustworthy infrastructure (known as rDaaS) to quickly develop securecrisis management systems. The rDaaSintegrates the Dynamic Data-DrivenApplication Systems (DDDAS) paradigm into a service-oriented architectureover cloud technology andprovidesa set of resilient DDDAS-As-A Service (rDaaS)components to build secure and trusted adaptable crisis processes. The rDaaSalso ensures resilience and security by obfuscating the execution environment andapplying Behavior Software Encryption and Moving Technique Defense. A simulation environment for a nuclear plant crisis managementcase study is illustrated to build resilient and trusted crisis response processes.
Keywords: rDaaS; resilience; cloud computing; service-oriented computing; trust and security

Daniel Kindström,
Towards a service-based business model – Key aspects for future competitive advantage,
European Management Journal,
Volume 28, Issue 6,
2010,
Pages 479-490,
ISSN 0263-2373,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2010.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263237310000538)
Abstract: Summary
Many product-based companies are seeking to increase their competiveness by moving towards a service-based business model. This research is based on a multiple case study of seven manufacturing companies and by using the business model concept it links managerial activities to a service innovation framework to emphasise how companies can best take advantage of a new service-based business model. Findings indicate that companies need to focus on all areas of their business models in a holistic fashion, and not just change isolated elements. Among other challenges, companies must develop their abilities to build relationships with customers, to visualize the intangible value of their service offerings, and to advance a dynamic service offering portfolio that is adaptive to changing customer needs.
Keywords: Service; Service innovation; New service development; Business model; Strategy

Qing Gu, Félix Cuadrado, Patricia Lago, Juan C. Dueñas,
3D architecture viewpoints on service automation,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 86, Issue 5,
2013,
Pages 1307-1322,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2012.12.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121212003445)
Abstract: Service-oriented architecture is an emerging paradigm for the execution of business-oriented as well as technical infrastructure processes by means of services. Automating the execution of services is of paramount importance in order to fulfill the needs of companies. However we have found that automation – although important – is seldom addressed explicitly as a concern when stating requirements or designing the software architecture of the service-based applications (SBAs). In this paper we define three architectural viewpoints framing the concerns about service automation. These three viewpoints, called 3D (Decisions, Degree, Data), respectively: express architectural decisions about automation; help identifying the level (degree) of automation required, and represent the specific data required to support automation in services. They have been applied to three industrial case studies and one academic experiment. Results show that they successfully support both technical and non-technical stakeholders in understanding how, and communicating upon, their concerns related to service automation have been addressed. The application of the 3D service automation viewpoints to different domains exhibits promising reusability.
Keywords: Architecture viewpoint; Service-oriented architecture; Automation

Sutanu Kumar Chandra, Partha Pratim Sarkar, Subhendu Biswas, Sourangshu Mukhopadhyay,
All- optical phase encoded 4-to-1 phase multiplexer using four wave mixing in semiconductor optical amplifier,
Optik,
Volume 125, Issue 23,
2014,
Pages 6953-6957,
ISSN 0030-4026,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2014.08.064.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402614010286)
Abstract: Optics has already showed its potency over its electronic complements in case of superfast computing and communication systems. Semiconductor optical amplifier, (SOA) with its several nonlinear properties, plays a very crucial role in the development of high-speed all-optical processor. Multiplexer and demultiplexer are the extremely important element of the processor which takes part in utilizing different actions like encoding, decoding, routing, and the different process of data conversion and generation, etc. In this paper, the authors have proposed a scheme of phase encoded all-optical phase multiplexer using four wave mixing (FWM) property of semiconductor optical amplifier. Thus, the improved tolerance against fiber-nonlinearity and higher receiver sensitivity of phase encoding method with the fast occurring processes like FWM in SOA offers higher speed in this proposed scheme of multiplexing.
Keywords: FWM; Phase encoding; Multiplexer; SOA

Johanna Vanderstraeten, Paul Matthyssens,
Service-based differentiation strategies for business incubators: Exploring external and internal alignment,
Technovation,
Volume 32, Issue 12,
2012,
Pages 656-670,
ISSN 0166-4972,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2012.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166497212000971)
Abstract: Strategic positioning and fit theories may inform the service-based differentiation strategies that incubators use to secure external and internal alignment. External alignment relates to tenant service expectations and perceptions; internal alignment involves a competence configuration for each strategy alternative. By implementing the proposed framework, an incubator can achieve service differentiation and ultimately enhanced customer (tenant) value. Qualitative research among nonprofit economic development incubators reveals two service-based differentiation positions: specialists and generalists. Whereas extant research advocates only a specialist stance, the present analysis confirms that service-based differentiation can result from a generalist stance. This study offers the first typology of service-based differentiation strategies for incubators that aligns strategy with external and internal variables.
Keywords: Business incubator; Strategic positioning; Incubator strategy; Strategic fit; Internal alignment; External alignment

Claus Pahl,
Semantic model-driven architecting of service-based software systems,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 49, Issue 8,
2007,
Pages 838-850,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2006.09.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584906001315)
Abstract: Model-driven development is a software development framework that emphasises model-based abstraction and automated code generation. Service-based software architectures benefit in particular from semantic, ontology-based modelling. We present ontology-based transformation and reasoning techniques for layered semantic service architecture modelling. Integrated ontological layers support abstract domain modelling, architectural design, and interoperability aspects. Ontologies are beneficial due to their potential to formally define models, to allow reasoning about semantic models, and to automate transformations at all layers. Ontologies are suitable in particular for the Web Services platform due to their ubiquity within the Semantic Web and their application to support semantic Web services.
Keywords: Software architecture; Model-driven development; Web services; Semantic modelling; Ontologies

Zhaohui Wu, Shuiguang Deng, Jian Wu,
Chapter 1 - Introduction,
Editor(s): Zhaohui Wu, Shuiguang Deng, Jian Wu,
Service Computing,
Academic Press,
2015,
Pages 1-15,
ISBN 9780128023303,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-802330-3.00001-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128023303000011)
Abstract: Today, with services as the basic elements, service-oriented architecture as the guiding principle, and service reuse and service composition as the software design methods, service-oriented computing has become the latest developmental direction in current distributed computing. It is undeniable that service computing is leading the new round wave in software industry development. This chapter mainly focuses on the concept and research framework of service computing, as well as state-of-the-art of service computing from both the industrial and academic perspective.
Keywords: Concept of service computing; Service computing; Service computing framework; State-of-the-art of service computing

Ilchul Yoon, Alan Sussman, Atif Memon, Adam Porter,
Testing component compatibility in evolving configurations,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 445-458,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.09.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912002042)
Abstract: Software components are increasingly assembled from other components. Each component may further depend on others, and each may have multiple active versions. The total number of configurations—combinations of components and their versions—in use can be very large. Moreover, components are constantly being enhanced and new versions are being released. Component developers, therefore, spend considerable time and effort doing compatibility testing—determining whether their components can be built correctly for all deployed configurations–both for existing active component versions and new releases. In previous work we developed Rachet, a distributed, cache-aware mechanism to support large-scale compatibility testing of component-based software with a fixed set of component versions. In this paper, we observe that it is too expensive to perform compatibility testing from scratch each time a new version of a component is released. We thus add a new dimension to Rachet: to perform incremental and prioritized compatibility testing. We describe algorithms to compute differences in component compatibilities between current and previous component builds, a formal test adequacy criterion based on covering the differences, and cache-aware configuration sampling and testing methods that attempt to reuse effort from previous testing sessions. Because testers are often interested in focusing test effort on newly released and modified components and their versions, we have developed a prioritization mechanism that enhances compatibility testing by examining the configurations that test new or modified component versions first, while also distributing the work over a cluster of machines. We evaluate our approach using the 5-year evolution history of a scientific middleware component. Our results show that our methods can increase performance significantly over Rachet’s previous retest-all approach and also tests important component compatibilities early in the overall testing process, making the process of compatibility testing practical for evolving components.
Keywords: Incremental testing; Software component; Compatibility

Hong Zhang, Xiaoli Liao, Tianlin Zhai,
Evaluation of ecosystem service based on scenario simulation of land use in Yunnan Province,
Physics and Chemistry of the Earth, Parts A/B/C,
Volume 104,
2018,
Pages 58-65,
ISSN 1474-7065,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pce.2017.12.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474706516302182)
Abstract: Climate change and rapid urbanization are important factors restricting future land use. Situational analysis, as an important foundation for the optimization of land use, needs to focus on the impact of climate factors and socio-economic factors. In this paper, the Markov model and the DLS (Simulation of Land System Dynamics) model are combined for the first time, and the land use pattern in 2020 is simulated based on the data of land use in 2000 and 2010 as well as the climate, soil, topography and socio-economic factors of Yunnan Province. In his paper, we took Yunnan Province as the case study area, and selected 12 driving factors by logistic regression method, then the land use demands and layout of Yunnan Province in 2020 has been forecasted and simulated under business as usual (BAU) scenario and farmland protection (FP) scenario and the changes in ecosystem service value has been calculated. The result shows that: (1) after the regression analysis and ROC (Relative Operating Characteristics) test, the 12 factors selected in this paper have a strong ability to explain the land use change in Yunnan Province. (2) Under the two scenarios, the significant reduction of arable land area is a common feature of land use change in Yunnan Province in the future, and its main land use type will be construction land. However, under FP scenario, the current situation where construction land encroach on arable land will be improved. Compared with the change from 2000 to 2010, the trend of arable land, forest land, water area, construction land and unused land will be the same under the two scenarios, whereas the change trend of grassland was opposite. (3) From 2000 to 2020, the value of ecosystem services in Yunnan Province is on the rise, but the ecosystem service value under FP scenario is higher than that of the ecosystem services under BAU scenario. In general, land use in 2020 in Yunnan Province continues the pattern of 2010, but there are also significant spatial differences. Under the BAU scenario, the construction land is mainly in the south of Lijiang City and the northeastern part of Kunming. Under the FP scenario, the new construction land is concentrated near the Lashi dam in northern Yunnan Province, and the high-quality arable land in the valley will be better protected. The research results can provide reference for the optimization of land use pattern in Yunnan Province, and provide scientific basis for land use management and planning. Based on the value of ecosystem services, we should implement the policy of strict protection of arable land, both to ensure food supply and promote the healthy development of ecological environment.
Keywords: Land use; DLS-Markov model; Spatial pattern; Ecosystem services; Yunnan Province

Pal Varga, Fredrik Blomstedt, Luis Lino Ferreira, Jens Eliasson, Mats Johansson, Jerker Delsing, Iker Martínez de Soria,
Making system of systems interoperable – The core components of the arrowhead framework,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 81,
2017,
Pages 85-95,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2016.08.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804516301965)
Abstract: The objective of the Arrowhead Framework is to efficiently support the development, deployment and operation of interconnected, cooperative systems. It is based on the Service Oriented Architecture philosophy. The building elements of the framework are systems that provide and consume services, and cooperate as systems of systems. Some commonly used systems, such as orchestration, authorization or service registry are considered as core. These can be used by any system of systems that follow the guidelines of the Arrowhead Framework. Within the framework, systems – using different information exchange technologies during collaboration – are helped through various approaches. These include the so-called Interoperability Layer, as well as systems and services for translation. Furthermore, one of the main problems of developing such highly interoperable systems is the lack of understanding between various development groups. Adequate development and service documentation methodologies can help to overcome this issue. The design, development and verification methodology for each service, system and system of systems within the Arrowhead Framework supports that these can be implemented, verified, deployed, and run in an interoperable way. This paper presents an overview of the framework together with its core elements – and provides guidelines for the design and deployment of interoperable, Arrowhead-compliant cooperative systems.
Keywords: System interoperability; System of systems; Systems; Services; Service oriented architectures; Internet of things

Wendy Hall, Thanassis Tiropanis,
Web evolution and Web Science,
Computer Networks,
Volume 56, Issue 18,
2012,
Pages 3859-3865,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2012.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128612003581)
Abstract: This paper examines the evolution of the World Wide Web as a network of networks and discusses the emergence of Web Science as an interdisciplinary area that can provide us with insights on how the Web developed, and how it has affected and is affected by society. Through its different stages of evolution, the Web has gradually changed from a technological network of documents to a network where documents, data, people and organisations are interlinked in various and often unexpected ways. It has developed from a technological artefact separate from people to an integral part of human activity that is having an increasingly significant impact on the world. This paper outlines the lessons from this retrospective examination of the evolution of the Web, presents the main outcomes of Web Science activities and discusses directions along which future developments could be anticipated.
Keywords: Web Science; Web evolution; Web Observatories; Social machines

Michael Polter, Raimar Scherer,
Towards an Adaptive Civil Engineering Computation Framework,
Procedia Engineering,
Volume 196,
2017,
Pages 45-51,
ISSN 1877-7058,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2017.07.171.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705817330308)
Abstract: Virtual desktops and virtual applications nowadays become popular in civil engineering companies. Current developments of software vendors trend to the outsourcing of the engineer's workstation to the cloud. However, in the foreseeable future companies will rely on hybrid environments where traditional tasks are handled by traditional applications and cloud platforms are used for more dynamical business areas. Furthermore, stakeholders in construction projects are geographically spread and work together only temporary. Traditional applications never were designed for this scenario. In this paper we introduce the BIMgrid, a work in progress to develop an innovative, adaptive infrastructure integration framework for civil engineering applications, based on private grid and public cloud resources. Although some middleware solutions for the efficient combination of hardware already exist, they are mostly based on UNIX and demand advanced technological knowledge to implement. We present our current state of work and give an overview about the architecture of the BIMgrid, the integration into an IT infrastructure, data management and the interfaces to use it's features with common applications. The prototype implementation is designed as a layered, service-oriented architecture (SOA) and offers several interfaces. Data Management in the BIMgrid will be based on vendor specific data formats and the Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) standard and hence supports the interoperability between applications. Our prototype has been developed in several research projects and tested by industry partners under real conditions. We expect to reduce costs of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) through the automation of complex workflows, optimization of data transfer and reduction of the communication effort between stakeholders. Further we want to make benefits of grid and cloud computing accessible to companies, without dissipation of so far made hard- and software investments.
Keywords: bim; cloud; grid; integration platform; soa

Bedir Tekinerdogan, Turgay Çelik, Ömer Köksal,
Generation of feasible deployment configuration alternatives for Data Distribution Service based systems,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 58,
2018,
Pages 126-145,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2018.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548917302994)
Abstract: Data distribution service (DDS) has been defined by the OMG to provide a standard data-centric publish-subscribe programming model and specification for distributed systems. DDS has been applied for the development of high performance distributed systems such as in the defense, finance, automotive, and simulation domains. To support the analysis and design of a DDS-based distributed system, the OMG has proposed the DDS UML Profile. A DDS-based system usually consists of multiple participant applications each of which has different responsibilities in the system. These participants can be allocated in different ways to the available resources, which leads to different configuration alternatives. Usually, each configuration alternative will perform differently with respect to the execution and communication cost of the overall system. In general, the deployment configuration is selected manually based on expert knowledge. This approach is suitable for small to medium scale applications but for larger applications this is not tractable. In this paper, we provide a systematic approach for deriving feasible deployment alternatives based on the application design and the available physical resources. The application design includes the design for DDS topics, publishers and subscribers. For supporting the application design, we propose a DDS UML profile. Based on the application design and the physical resources, the feasible deployment alternatives can be algorithmically derived and automatically generated using the developed tools. We illustrate the approach for deriving feasible deployment alternatives of smart city parking system.
Keywords: Data Distribution Service (DDS); Software architecture analysis; Design optimization; Model-driven development; Feasible deployment

Kuo-Ming Chao,
E-services in e-business engineering,
Electronic Commerce Research and Applications,
Volume 16,
2016,
Pages 77-81,
ISSN 1567-4223,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2015.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567422315000769)
Abstract: E-business engineering involves the study of evolving IT technologies and management science approaches to revolutionise e-business models and behaviors, and the demands from new e-business activities that prompt the development of new technologies and to make progress on management methods. In this essay, the scope of e-business engineering is illustrated and its importance to e-business is highlighted. Service-oriented computing (SOC) was chosen among numerous related topics for further analysis due to its role in the increasing popularity of cloud services and Internet of services (IoS) as they are hot commodities in e-business and important enabling technologies for e-business. The focus of this state-of-the-art review is on two SOC core technologies: service description language and service registries for service discovery and composition. A number of key frameworks and developments in the area are discussed in terms of their pros and cons and their associated challenges in the fast growing e-services marketplace. This essay also points out future developments and research directions to meet the related challenges, such as the standardization of service description and directory modelling, and the automated generation of annotation based on semantics and domain ontology.
Keywords: E-business engineering; Electronic commerce; Methods advances; Research directions; Service-oriented computing

David Albert Breunig, Benjamin Götz,
Simultaneously acting network layers in an IEC 61499 modeling system at the example of Eclipse-4DIAC, the cloud-oriented MSB and XML-RPC,
Procedia CIRP,
Volume 72,
2018,
Pages 928-933,
ISSN 2212-8271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2018.03.143.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827118303007)
Abstract: As modern control systems in manufacturing evolve into highly grained and split up systems of systems, two special demands appear: Initially, such systems of systems require flexible communication structures in order to provide not only communication between strongly different controlling components but also communication with higher-level systems. Communication with higher-level systems is strongly demanded because of the desire to digitally represent the systems of systems. Besides this, software tools which allow comprehensible modelling, configuring and programming of distributed systems are needed too. These software tools must also control the communication structures. This paper shows the implementation and usage of two different means of communication specifications as layers in the IEC 61499 based modelling system 4DIAC. The implementation shall be an example of how the two mentioned demands can be met.
Keywords: IEC 61499; Cloud; MSB; XML-RPC; Implementation; Network layer; Manufacturing

Hsien-Yu Lee, Nai-Jian Wang,
Cloud-based enterprise resource planning with elastic model–view–controller architecture for Internet realization,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
2018,
,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2018.11.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548918301697)
Abstract: Companies currently encounter obstacles in networking, integration, and global manufacturing as mobile devices as well as computers increasingly facilitate commercial activities. Accordingly, we propose a new web-based enterprise resource planning (e-ERP) system that can be rapidly migrated from conventional on-site ERP systems. In this paper, by referring to Internet technologies and several key web topics, we explore the evolution of e-Commerce and ERP. We also discuss the applications of the proposed method based on an elastic model–view–controller e-ERP and software-as-a-service delivery. On the basis of information system architecture evaluation and realization results, we discuss the application of web technologies and web engineering models for the effective hosting of a reliable cloud ERP. In addition, on the basis of a review of the literature and related emerging technologies, we comparatively discuss several holistic frameworks of web application development from the technical and business perspectives. As indicated by the implementation results, the proposed approach can be used to effectively host a secure cloud ERP.
Keywords: e-Business; Interface; Information system architecture evaluation; Web programming; Cloud computing

Pol Arranz-Piera, Francis Kemausuor, Lawrence Darkwah, Ishmael Edjekumhene, Joan Cortés, Enrique Velo,
Mini-grid electricity service based on local agricultural residues: Feasibility study in rural Ghana,
Energy,
Volume 153,
2018,
Pages 443-454,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2018.04.058.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544218306650)
Abstract: The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are emphatic on the role of energy for development, with a target to ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services to about 1.3 billion people without electricity access, and to increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. For remote rural communities in developing countries, where grid extension is often expensive, decentralized biomass mini-grids can be a reliable electricity supply solution. This study investigated the technical and financial feasibility of decentralized electrification based on agricultural waste gasification in five Ghanaian communities. Results show that the projected electricity demand of the communities compares favorably with the potential energy generation from available agricultural residues, a situation that we envisage in many rural communities where agriculture is a predominant livelihood activity. As with most biomass electricity analysis, it is not profitable from the perspective of an entrepreneur with 100% private funding; however, by applying a customer tariff equal to the current expenditure on electricity equivalent uses in the communities, a subsidy of about 35% on initial investment would enable a private entrepreneur an internal rate of return of 15%, whereas a 60% subsidy could enable internal rate of return of 25%.
Keywords: Rural electrification; Biomass mini-grids; Agricultural residues; Energy planning; Feasibility studies; Ghana

Ronan Bolton, Vincent Lagendijk, Antti Silvast,
Grand visions and pragmatic integration: Exploring the evolution of Europe’s electricity regime,
Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions,
2018,
,
ISSN 2210-4224,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2018.04.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210422417301673)
Abstract: In this paper we develop a socio-technical analysis of the European electricity system. We show that the relationship between high-level grand visions of an integrated European system and more pragmatic bottom-up processes of electricity system development have been a feature of the European regime for coordinating cross-border electricity flows since the 1920s. Following a period when radically different visions of a European system were proposed, the nation-state emerged as the key site of system building and constituted the core of the technological and institutional configuration. However, European grand visions persisted and this led to the creation of various forms of transnational collaboration and coordination. We discuss whether this inherited technological and institutional configuration is compatible with the contemporary desire for a European low-carbon transition and we emphasise the need for more detailed analysis of socio-technical regimes and their dynamics to inform policy and enrich transitions theory.
Keywords: Socio-technical regimes; Low carbon transitions; Internal electricity market; Energy union

Sergej V. Znamenskij,
Effect driven Evolution: Information Systems Architecture for Large Dynamic Organizations,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 46, Issue 9,
2013,
Pages 1061-1066,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902823359,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20130619-3-RU-3018.00552.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667016344305)
Abstract: A new approach is proposed to evolutionary information system engineering. The approach aims to provide high-quality support for large and complex socio-technical systems. The main idea is to replace usual developer framework of formal restrictions and tasks with the developer framework of local transparency and high motivation to increase total system quality as far as possible. This idea assumes a monitoring subsystem which records, measures properly and displays the real income of each developer activity to system quality (and evolve with the system itself). The quality indicators should reflect related changes in users satisfaction, resource usage and system transparency, which is necessary for successive selection of promising evolution direction. Another assumption is that system not only allows such a monitoring, but allows local changes to be safely tested and adopted independently (and also in a safe way rejected later if necessary). System should be inconsistency tolerant and extremely truthwise. It may look like mashup of Wikipedia, social network and BPM, but it can't be obtained as combination of them. The sketch of possible innovative system architecture to support all the features together is briefly described.
Keywords: Complex adaptive systems; Software engineering; Decentralized control; Distributed computer control systems; Human-centered design; Information systems; Project management; Quality control; Social requirements; Systems concepts

G. Jiménez,
TOWARDS FAMILY EVOLUTION OF CNC SYSTEMS,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 40, Issue 19,
2007,
Pages 53-58,
ISSN 1474-6670,
ISBN 9783902661326,
https://doi.org/10.3182/20071002-MX-4-3906.00010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667015322941)
Abstract: Abstract
A low-cost alternative to software development in many domains is the construction of software family infrastructures. Instead of developing one system at a time, the software families approach focuses on creating an infrastructure of software components and configuration tools to construct application systems from a specification. The approach to implement software families for constructing component-based CNC and systems has been demonstrated. However, as any other system, software family infrastructures need to be evolved to add new components or constraints to the infrastructure. This paper presents an approach for software family infrastructure evolution and its demonstration in an infrastructure for configuring a software family of CNC systems.
Keywords: Software Family Evolution; Software Families; CNC systems; Low Cost Implementation

Xiaochen Chen, Yuqing Chen, Toshiyuki Shimizu, Jia Niu, Ken'ichi Nakagami, Xuepeng Qian, Baoju Jia, Jun Nakajima, Ji Han, Jianhua Li,
Water resources management in the urban agglomeration of the Lake Biwa region, Japan: An ecosystem services-based sustainability assessment,
Science of The Total Environment,
Volume 586,
2017,
Pages 174-187,
ISSN 0048-9697,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.01.197.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969717302280)
Abstract: An innovative ecosystem services-based sustainability assessment was conducted in the important urban agglomeration of the Lake Biwa region, Japan, covering the time period from 1950 to 2014. A 22-indicator system was established that was based on the major ecosystem services of Lake Biwa and its water courses, i.e., provisioning services regarding aquatic products and water; regulating services regarding floods and water quality; cultural services regarding recreation and tourism, scientific research, and environmental education; and supporting services regarding biodiversity. First, changes in the eight ecosystem services were discussed together with the considerable experience and difficult lessons that can be drawn from the development trajectory. Next, with the indicators rearranged according to sustainability principles, the regional sustainability over the past six-plus decades was assessed. In general, this urban agglomeration has been progressing in terms of its sustainability, although economic and social development was achieved at the cost of environmental degradation in the past, and the current economic downturn is hurting the balanced development and integrated benefits. The results lead directly to recommendations for regional development, especially in terms of economic rejuvenation, from the perspective of improving management of Lake Biwa's water resources. Moreover, the relevant knowledge is educational and inspirational for other places in the world that are facing similar development issues. For example, the effective and even pioneering countermeasures that have been taken against environmental degradation, as well as the participation and collaboration of multiple stakeholders, could be useful as a model. Moreover, the study invites increased understanding of ecosystem vulnerability to anthropogenic devastation and emphasizes the priority of precautionary measures over countermeasures in the context of holistic urban planning and sustainable urban development.
Keywords: Ecosystem services; Indicator; Lake Biwa; Sustainability assessment; Urban agglomeration; Water resources management
